==============================================================================
FILE      : SSC_CGL_Tier1_2024_EN.txt
SOURCE PDF: ssc_papers/merged/SSC_CGL_Tier1_2024_EN.pdf
SUBJECT   : English Comprehension
QUESTIONS : 905
==============================================================================

Q1.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Select the option that
arranges the sentences in the correct logical sequence to form a meaningful and
coherent paragraph.
a. This figure is predicted to climb as the percentage of Americans residing in rural
areas falls by an average of 1.6% annually.
b. The United Nations reports that India’s urban population is growing at a rate of 1.1
percent annually, while the country's rural population is shrinking at a rate of 0.37
percent annually.
c. While 82% of Americans live in urban settings, only 30% of Indians do so.
d. It's still a considerably smaller percentage of the Indian population than it is in the
US that resides in urban areas.
(A) b, d, c, a
(B) d, b, a, c
(C) a, c, b, d
(D) b, d, a, c

Q2.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Select the option that
arranges the sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent
paragraph.
A. Summative assessment is the assignment of the student’s performance at the end
of the academic term.
B. This new pattern ensures that besides just textbook teaching and learning, effective
child-teacher interaction is encouraged.
C. The CBSE envisages two types of examinations, Formative and Summative.
D. Formative assessment is a part of the teaching-learning process and is done
through conversation, quizzes, interviews, projects, assignments, etc.
(A) C, D, A, B
(B) A, B, C, D
(C) B, C, A, D
(D) D, A, C, B

Q3.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Select the option that
arranges the sentences in the correct logical sequence to form a meaningful and
coherent paragraph.
a. It regulates the operation of all body organs and protects the body and mind from
becoming unbalanced as a result of negative circumstances and unhealthy lifestyles.
b. It only requires frequent practice of the proper body motions and breathing
techniques.
c. The physical benefits of yoga can be enjoyed for a lifetime without risk or injury.
d. It regulates the relationship between the body, the intellect, and the spirit.
(A) b, a, c, d
(B) a, b, c, d
(C) d, a, b, c
(D) c, b, d, a

Q4.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. More children go to school than at any time in the past. But more children today are
out of school than any time in the past.
B. But it is not enough to blame the high birth rate for this state of affairs.
C. Indeed, it can be reasonably argued that continued mass illiteracy is not the result
but the cause of the high birth rate.
D. There are more literate people in India today than ever before. But there are also
more illiterates than ever before.
(A) ABCD
(B) DABC
(C) CBAD
(D) BADC

Q5.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. The genuine beliefs, though not unconsciously acquired by most children; and
even if they depart from these beliefs in later life
B. Something of them remains deeply implanted, ready to emerge in a time of stress of
crisis
C. The importance of education in forming character and opinion is very great and well
recognised by all
D. Education is, as a rule, the strongest force on the side of what exists and again
fundamental change
(A) DABC
(B) CBAD
(C) DCAB
(D) CABD

Q6.
Select the most appropriate order of the segments in the options that will fill in the
blanks and make a coherent paragraph.
Though Sheela loves watching horror movies,
________________/________________/________________/________________ she
rented another romantic today.
(A) she planned to try something different yesterday / so she rented the latest romantic / and to her surprise she enjoyed it very much / so much so that
(B) so much so that / and to her surprise she enjoyed it very much / she planned to try something different yesterday / so she rented the latest romantic
(C) so she rented the latest romantic / and to her surprise she enjoyed it very much / so much so that / she planned to try something different yesterday
(D) and to her surprise she enjoyed it very much /so much so that /so she rented the latest romantic /she planned to try something different yesterday

Q7.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph. Note: This is an
advertisement of an ice-cream brand.
(A) That’s why Silky is deliciously different and exceptionally versatile, natural, thick
and durable ice cream.
(B) Beautifully firm, nice, silky rather than thin and watery, it stays in shape and stands
on top of fruits or pastries without soaking in.
(C) Silky thick double ice cream has a unique, fresh taste and texture.
(A) BCA
(B) BAC
(C) CBA
(D) ABC

Q8.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. It was as simple as announcing what you have in your store or the services you
offer in your premises.
B. Over the years, advertising has evolved into a major industry that goes beyond
informing to persuading and influencing.
C. Advertising was initially meant to make people aware of the goods available in the
market.
D. It is a form of brainwashing consumers.
(A) DABC
(B) CABD
(C) BADC
(D) ADBC

Q9.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. However, their population is declining nowadays due to noise pollution.
B. It is one of the most common birds along with the other two species, the European
starling, and the rock pigeon.
C. Their constant presence outside our homes makes it easy to overlook them.
D. House sparrows can be found in most places with and without houses (or other
structures).
(A) DABC
(B) DBCA
(C) DACB
(D) BDCA

Q10.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. A big fancy dress ball was arranged to celebrate their homecoming.
B. It must have been a terrible shock for a young girl.
C. They had been married a month, just home from their honeymoon.
D. Just as the guests were starting to arrive, Charnley locked himself into his bedroom
and shot himself.
(A) ABCD
(B) DACB
(C) BCAD
(D) BCDA

Q11.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The company will launch the new product next month, and they are already promoting
it through various marketing channels.
(A) The new product were been launched by the company next month, and it already was promoting through various marketing channels.
(B) The new product will have been launched by the company next month, and it was already being promoted through various marketing channels.
(C) The new product will be launched by the company next month, and it is already being promoted through various marketing channels.
(D) The new product was launched by the company next month, and it is already promoted through various marketing channels.

Q12.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Select the option that
arranges the sentences in the correct sequence to form a meaningful and coherent
paragraph.
A)This past summer, my dream finally came true.
B)Strange lands, exciting places, and new cultures have always fascinated me.
C)Ever since I was a little girl, I dreamed about travelling overseas.
D)I got to travel to England, France, Switzerland, and Germany.
(A) DCBA
(B) CBAD
(C) ABCD
(D) BADC

Q13.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The research team is conducting experiments on a new drug that could revolutionise
the treatment of the disease.
(A) Experiments are conducted on a new drug that could revolutionise the treatment of the disease from the research team.
(B) Experiments were being conducted on a new drug that could revolutionise the treatment of the disease by the research team.
(C) Experiments have been conducted on a new drug that could have revolutionised the treatment of the disease through the research team.
(D) Experiments are being conducted on a new drug that could revolutionise the treatment of the disease by the research team.

Q14.
Select the option that contains all the MISSPELT words in the following sentences.
1. The new restraunt offers a wide variety of delicious dishes.
2. I can't beleive he made such a silly mistake in his presentation.
3. The teacher asked the students to complete the assigment by Friday.
4. She felt utterly embarassed by her colleague’s comments.
(A) restraunt, silly, assigment, colleague
(B) delicious, silly, assigment, colleague
(C) delicious, beleive, assigment, utterly
(D) restraunt, beleive, assigment, embarassed

Q15.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution’.
Spreading awareness about the rights of the consumers and the relief open to them in
case they did not get their money’s worth of goods and service has rightly been
identified as the first priority.
(A) were unable to get their money’s worth
(B) did not getting their money’s worth
(C) will not get their money’s worth
(D) No substitution

Q16.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. Mobile phones or smartphones are becoming popular all over the world.
B. But at the same time, it also harms us in many ways.
C. It is the most widely used means of communication today.
D. Today, it is very affordable and available to everyone.
(A) ABCD
(B) DACB
(C) CABD
(D) ACDB

Q17.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Charles Darwin is renowned for his book on evolution, ‘On the Origin of Species’,
which laid down a treasure of substantiation that evolution occurs, and projected a
mechanism, that is, natural selection, for how it does so.
(A) laid away a treasure of substantiation
(B) laid about a treasure of substantiation
(C) laid out a treasure of substantiation
(D) laid into a treasure of substantiation

Q18.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
(a) one of the primary obstacles encountered
(b) is the risk of sample contamination
(c) during the analysis of controlled dangerous substance (CDS)
(d) from improper handling and collecting methodologies
(e) proof bloodstain patterns and DNA evidence
(A) acebd
(B) abcde
(C) eacdb
(D) aecdb

Q19.
Given below are four jumbled sentences. Select the option that gives their correct
logical sequence.
A. These are responsible for producing the major fuel used across the globe.
B. The country has 100 major oil and gas fields.
C. The economy of Saudi Arabia is based on petroleum.
D. The chief oil field is Ghawar Field having an estimated 70 billion reserve resource.
(A) CBAD
(B) ABCD
(C) BACD
(D) DCAB

Q20.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A.The door of the flat was ajar.
B.The taxi stopped.
C.Mr. Satterthwaite flung himself out and raced up the stone stairs to the second floor
like a young athlete.
D.He pushed it open, and the great voice welcomed him.
(A) ABCD
(B) BCAD
(C) DCBA
(D) BACD

Q21.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
The food intolerance industry has grown dramatically in the previous decade, chiefly
because of a boost in Coeliac and Crohn’s disease cases, as well as increasing
awareness among health-conscious clients.
(A) pretty much entirely because of a boil-down
(B) contextually because of a spark
(C) owing primarily to a rise
(D) casually due to a growth

Q22.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment in
which the article has been used INCORRECTLY.
In the recent past, the IT industry has emerged / as a major contributor to an industry
revenue / as well as employment / opportunity provider in the country.
(A) as a major contributor to an industry revenue
(B) In the recent past, the IT industry has emerged
(C) opportunity provider in the country.
(D) as well as employment

Q23.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
Neither my brother nor my brothers-in-law / attended the meeting / as his health is not
more good.
(A) No error
(B) as his health is not more good
(C) attended the meeting
(D) Neither my brother nor my brothers-in-law

Q24.
Select the option that can replace the underlined phrase and make the sentence
grammatically correct.
The programme on TV was now shown the blurring faces of the inmates of the
rehabilitation centre .
(A) was now showing the blurred faces of the inmates upon the rehabilitation centre
(B) were now showing the blurred faces of the inmates of the rehabilitation centre.
(C) were now showing the blurring faces of the inmates from the rehabilitation centre
(D) was now showing the blurred faces of the inmates of the rehabilitation centre

Q25.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Beyond skills, experience, and training, companies search for applicants who display
excitement — those they believe shall carry out allocated responsibilities cheerfully
and cooperatively.
(A) shall take up any designated obligations
(B) will execute assigned duties
(C) will demonstrate non-biased work
(D) should pick up all skills and works

Q26.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
(a) the Industrial Revolution denotes
(b) and continued until the middle of the 19th century
(c) a significant period of social, economic and technological revolution
(d) that commenced in the latter part of the 18th century
(A) dcba
(B) cadb
(C) abcd
(D) acdb

Q27.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
A. at the same time giving happiness to the poor
B. by providing them with food, clothes, money or grain
C. festivals in India are celebrated to share happiness
D. by being in the presence of the members of the family and
(A) CABD
(B) ACBD
(C) CDAB
(D) CBAD

Q28.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
(a) the use of animal research
(b) throughout the past century
(c) and it continues to be used to understand many diseases
(d) has been of considerable importance
(e) in the field of scientific and medical advancements
(A) edcba
(B) aecdb
(C) ecdba
(D) adebc

Q29.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Leela was in class when the big fight happened. So, if you want to know the details,
You should ask her, you will get the truth given by somebody who is directly involved
and therefore likely to be accurate.
(A) shooting off the cuff
(B) with kid gloves
(C) calling a spade a spade
(D) straight from the horse’s mouth

Q30.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
After I retire, I started a second career / as a writer and published several books /
which allowed me to share my stories / and insights with a wider audience.
(A) which allowed me to share my stories
(B) After I retire, I started a second career
(C) and insights with a wider audience
(D) as a writer and published several books

Q31.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined part of the given
sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution’.
As the rulers of the planet, humans like to think that it is the largest creatures that will
emerge victorious from the struggle for survival.
(A) No substitution
(B) it is the most large creatures
(C) they are a largest creature
(D) they are the largest creatures

Q32.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A.He remembered her as she once was – an eager, glowing girl.
B.He had not seen her for nearly thirteen years.
C.Mr. Satterthwaite went to meet her.
D.And now he saw – a Frozen Lady.
(A) CBAD
(B) ABCD
(C) DBAC
(D) DCBA

Q33.
Given below are four jumbled sentences. Select the option that gives their correct
logical sequence.
A. These can turn around to track stars with the rotation of Earth.
B. Observatories are places to study place.
C. They are mostly built on the mountain tops.
D. Telescopes are placed in the dome-shaped roof of the building.
(A) DCBA
(B) CBDA
(C) BCDA
(D) ACDB

Q34.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
Founding father / is / of / New Historicism / Greenbalt / considered / the.
(A) Greenbelt is the founding father of New Historicism considered.
(B) Greenbalt is considered the founding father of New Historicism.
(C) The founding father of New Historicism is considered Greenbalt.
(D) The founding father is considered Greenbalt of New Historicism.

Q35.
Given below are four jumbled sentences. Select the option that gives their correct
logical sequence.
A. When we connect this design with a wire, electricity flows.
B. These metal strips were put in a sulphuric acid solution.
C. He made two strips of different metals.
D. Alessandro Volta discovered electric battery.
(A) CBDA
(B) DCBA
(C) BCDA
(D) ACDB

Q36.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
P. having the opportunity of observing people’s
Q. we respect and appreciate their point of views
R. the advantage of travelling different places and
S. culture, custom and lifestyle, is that
(A) SQPR
(B) PSQR
(C) RQPS
(D) RPSQ

Q37.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
‘Spy Family’ is a graphic novel that is a narrative work in which the story is conveyed
to the reader using uninterrupted art in a traditional comics format.
(A) sedimental art in a traditional
(B) longitudinal art in a traditional
(C) existential art in a traditional
(D) sequential art in a traditional

Q38.
In the given question, a statement divided into different segments is given. Rearrange
all the segments to form a coherent statement.
O: population is expected to triple in
P: the next 50 years
Q: among the world’s poorest countries
R: population shrinkage in that period
S: whereas many rich countries will see
(A) SPORQ
(B) RSOPQ
(C) POSQR
(D) QOPSR

Q39.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The company understood that these small protests of employees regarding low wages
were just the tip of the iceberg.
(A) A small, noticeable part of a problem, the total size of which is really much greater
(B) A small, noticeable part of a problem, the total size of which is solvable
(C) A large part of a problem which is really noticeable
(D) A small, noticeable part of a problem, the total size of which is non-existent

Q40.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
To the general public, William was best known as a crusader for peace and as an
admired critic about social, political and ethical subjects.
(A) for peace and as an admired critic by
(B) about peace and as an admired critic about
(C) in peace and as an admired critic about
(D) for peace and as an admired critic on

Q41.
In the following sentence, four words are underlined out of which one word is
misspelt. Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
I took out a water tumbler(A) for a drink, but found the water in the metal container (B)
had frozen so I couldn't quanch (C) my thirst. I ate some biscuits and offered (D) some
to Hillary.
(A) A
(B) B
(C) C
(D) D

Q42.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
My brother received / his MBA degree into / the university last year.
(A) the university last year
(B) his MBA degree into
(C) No error
(D) My brother received

Q43.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
After reflecting on the matter regarding his boss’s selfish attitude, Raju decided to
force himself to perform an unpleasant action in a difficult situation in order to resolve
the matter.
(A) dodge the bullet
(B) ignore the bullet
(C) bite the bullet
(D) shoot the bullet

Q44.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
The company specialises at / designing, crafting and manufacturing / exquisite, high-
quality furniture / of exceptional craftsmanship.
(A) designing, crafting and manufacturing
(B) The company specialises at
(C) of exceptional craftsmanship
(D) exquisite, high-quality furniture

Q45.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words in the following sentence.
Despite recent superficial moves toward political reconciliation, Libya remains in the
grip of a bloodstained corrupt military exclusive circle of people with a common
purpose.
(A) oblique
(B) pique
(C) antique
(D) clique

Q46.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
(a) false news websites
(b) spreading propaganda about politics
(c) thrive because the advertisements and politicians
(d) and social networking sites
(e) make a lot of money
(A) adecb
(B) aedcb
(C) adcbe
(D) aecbd

Q47.
In the given question, a statement divided into different segments is given. Rearrange
all the segments to form a coherent statement.
O: that the Soviet army had liberated
P: from the fascist forces came under
Q: the east European countries
R: the control of the USSR
S: after the Second World War
(A) SROPQ
(B) SQOPR
(C) POSQR
(D) POQSR

Q48.
Given below are four jumbled sentences. Select the option that gives their correct
logical sequence.
A. It contains high levels of Vitamin A and D.
B. Cod liver oil is thus used to treat arthritis.
C. This supplement is made from the liver of cod fish.
D. Cod liver oil is a nutritional supplement.
(A) DCAB
(B) CBAD
(C) ABCD
(D) BACD

Q49.
Select the sentence that contains a spelling error.
(A) The venerated singer was also secretive, moody and very intense, famous for erratic and difficult behaviour
(B) Elephants are in trouble mainly because people desire ivory trinkets that are made of tusks, often gruesomely killing them to achieve their purpose.
(C) Researchers recommend that pesticides should not be used indiscriminately as they eliminate biodiversity for future generations.
(D) Journalism is often the work of painstaking rigour and perseverence that detail the socio-political experiences of our worlds.

Q50.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Select the option that arranges
the parts in the correct sequence to form a meaningful sentence.
(P) society benefits from diversity
(Q) enriching cultures and
(O) by fostering understanding and empathy
(R) perspectives from around the world
(A) QPRO
(B) POQR
(C) ROQP
(D) RPOQ

Q51.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Renewable energy / sources like solar and wind power / will replaced traditional fossil
fuels / and help reduce carbon emissions.
(A) and help reduce carbon emissions
(B) will replaced traditional fossil fuels
(C) sources like solar and wind power
(D) Renewable energy

Q52.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Our family is planning / a trip to Europe next summer / where we should visit several
famous / landmarks and enjoy local cuisine.
(A) Our family is planning
(B) a trip to Europe next summer
(C) landmarks and enjoy local cuisine
(D) where we should visit several famous

Q53.
In the following sentence, four words have been underlined, out of which one word is
MISSPELT. Select the option with the MISSPELT word.
In spite of the dilemma that preveiled during the discussion sessions, the committee
remained committed to finding an amicable solution to the issue.
(A) dilemma
(B) preveiled
(C) amicable
(D) committee

Q54.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Raju’s job as a clerk seemed to be bad at first because of the low salary, but resulted
in something good happening later because it saved him from being unemployed.
(A) a blessing in disguise
(B) a boon in disguise
(C) a jolt in disguise
(D) a gift in disguise

Q55.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
People know Stellenbosch for its greenery and delicious street foods.
(A) Stellenbosch was known to people for its greenery and delicious street foods.
(B) Stellenbosch have been known to people for its greenery and delicious street foods.
(C) Stellenbosch had been known to people for its greenery and delicious street foods.
(D) Stellenbosch is known to people for its greenery and delicious street foods.

Q56.
In the given question, a statement divided into different segments is given. Rearrange
all the segments to form a coherent statement.
O: its first constitution
P: and soon got himself elected
Q: the administration of the country
R: general Ayub Khan took over
S: after Pakistan framed
(A) POSRQ
(B) ROPQS
(C) SORQP
(D) SPORQ

Q57.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Even if you’ve never heard his name, you’ve probably met someone with his words
tattooed in their skin or heard them sung at a music concert.
(A) tattooed on their skin
(B) tattooed through their skin
(C) tattooed until their skin
(D) tattooed overdoing their skin

Q58.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Scientists were conducting experiments on the newly discovered species.
(A) The newly discovered species has been conducting experiments by scientists.
(B) Experiments were being conducted on the newly discovered species by scientists.
(C) The newly discovered species has been experimented on by scientists.
(D) Experiments on the newly discovered species had been conducted by the scientists.

Q59.
In the given question, a statement divided into different segments is given. Rearrange
all the segments to form a coherent statement.
O: also benefit from knowing
P: there are several reasons
Q: why even parents would
R: more about how and why
S: children do the things that they do
(A) RQOPS
(B) OPQSR
(C) PQORS
(D) PQROS

Q60.
Select the sentence that does NOT have a spelling error.
(A) The author is famous for leading a life of subterfuge and contredictions which has led to challenges in understanding past works.
(B) Statistical patterns and historical data cannot predict the futristic problems that await a civilisation like ours.
(C) The new caches of materials reveal a secret pleascence that was hidden away from the rest of the world
(D) Many friends and memoirists have described the author in detail but there are no photos of the author available to the press.

Q61.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Select the option that has the
segment with a grammatical error.
The employees were comfortable / with me and they talked about / their problems
since / I has worked there as a manager.
(A) with me and they talked about
(B) I has worked there as a manager.
(C) their problems since
(D) The employees were comfortable

Q62.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
(A) he had to take the bus
(B) his friend, who used to give
(C) to his office because he had
(D) him a lift, was on vacation
(E) never learned to drive and
(A) EBADC
(B) ACEBD
(C) DACEB
(D) BADEC

Q63.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined word segment in the
given sentence.
Carnatic music is usually performed by a small troupe of actors, consisting of a
principal performer, a melodic accompaniment, and a rhythm accompaniment.
(A) ensemble of musicians
(B) panel of judges
(C) band of singers
(D) board of directors

Q64.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Select the option that arranges
the parts in the correct sequence to form a meaningful sentence.
(P) technology has revolutionised
(Q) and it has transformed the way
(O) every aspect of our lives
(R) we communicate and connect
(A) RPOQ
(B) ORQP
(C) RPQO
(D) POQR

Q65.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
(O) as it was the last one of the evening
(P) the city bus was overcrowded
(Q) and this gave an opportunity
(R) to the pickpockets
(S) to try their skill
(A) PSORQ
(B) SRPOQ
(C) SROPQ
(D) POQRS

Q66.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
(A) and was searching for them
(B) the grandmother couldn’t find
(C) all around the house
(D) placed them on her head
(E) her spectacles because she had
(A) BADEC
(B) CABED
(C) BEDAC
(D) ADBEC

Q67.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
A. all the plants and animals of today
B. it is written that Brahma is the God of creation
C. and it is He who has made
D. in the book of Hindu mythology
(A) DBCA
(B) DACB
(C) CABD
(D) DCBA

Q68.
The following sentence has been divided into three segments. One of them may
contain an error. Select the option that has the segment with the error. If you don’t find
any error, select ‘No error’ as your answer.
Mr. Ali’s shop / is further to / the hospital.
(A) No error
(B) Mr. Ali’s shop
(C) is further to
(D) the hospital.

Q69.
The following sentence has been divided into five segments. The first segment has no
error. Select the option that has the segment with the grammatical error.
Due to the pandemic, / the prices of / medicines increased / every day since / last
December.
(A) every day since
(B) last December.
(C) medicines increased
(D) the prices of

Q70.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
By this time next year / I will had graduated from college / and starting my first job / in
the field of marketing.
(A) in the field of marketing
(B) By this time next year
(C) I will had graduated from college
(D) and starting my first job

Q71.
Three pipes P, Q and R can fill a cistern in 40 minutes, 80 minutes and 120 minutes,
respectively. Initially, all the pipes are opened. After how much time (in minutes)
should the pipes Q and R be turned off so that the cistern will be completely filled in
just half an hour?
(A) 12
(B) 16
(C) 14
(D) 10

Q72.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
Fatima was at her wits’ end trying to decide on a serene place for spending the
holidays in.
(A) So worried, confused or annoyed that she became unconscious
(B) So calm and composed that she knows what to do next
(C) So worried, confused or annoyed that she does not know what to do next
(D) So worried, confused or annoyed that she insulted others for no reason

Q73.
In the following sentence, four words are underlined out of which one word is
misspelt. Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
I felt absolutely (A) fit at the summit. My mind was absolutely clear.(B) I didn’t feel
tired, I felt exhelarated. (C)It was a very clear sensation.(D)
(A) C
(B) A
(C) B
(D) D

Q74.
The side of an equilateral triangle is 28 cm. Taking each vertex as the centre, a circle is
described with a radius equal to half the length of the side of the triangle. Find the area
of that part of the triangle which is not included in the circles (use
and
(A) 30.89 cm2
(B) 31.08 cm2
(C) 39.08 cm2
(D) 38.08 cm2

Q75.
The following sentence has been split into segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error. If you don’t find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
People admired him, for / he lived by the same principals / that he preached.
(A) he lived by the same principals
(B) People admired him, for
(C) that he preached
(D) No error

Q76.
Parts of the given sentence have been underlined. Identify the part that has an error.
Select 'No error' if there is no error.
Although the team had trained diligently for months, they had still overwhelmed by the
opponent's unexpected tactics.
(A) for months
(B) trained diligently
(C) had still overwhelmed
(D) No error

Q77.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
The line, 'Round the rugged rocks the ragged rascal ran' uses the repetition of usually
initial consonant sounds in two or more neighbouring words or syllables .
(A) alliteration
(B) epithet
(C) allegory
(D) simile

Q78.
In the following sentence, four words are underlined out of which one word is
misspelt. Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
After the recapture (A) of Tololing and the adjacent features, evacting (B) the enemy
from this well-fortified (C) position became a priority.(D)
(A) B
(B) D
(C) C
(D) A

Q79.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If no substitution is required, select ‘No substitution’.
The chief guest concluded his speech as he requested to stop by the organisers.
(A) he is requested
(B) no substitution
(C) he will be requested
(D) he was requested

Q80.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Dipesh will send Rakesh away to college for certain reasons.
(A) Rakesh would have been sent away to college for certain reasons by Dipesh.
(B) Rakesh will be sent away to college for certain reasons by Dipesh.
(C) Rakesh will have to be sent away to college for certain reasons by Dipesh.
(D) Rakesh would be sent away to college for certain reasons by Dipesh.

Q81.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Aesthetic value is specifically a way in which we can get positive conclude value from
the world at large.
(A) can get positive convalescent value
(B) can get positive contrastive value
(C) can get positive conclusive value
(D) can get positive convulsive value

Q82.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
The painting was admired by art enthusiasts from around the world.
(A) Art enthusiasts from around the world have admired the painting.
(B) Art enthusiasts from around the world admired the painting.
(C) The painting was being admired by art enthusiasts from around the world.
(D) The painting has been admired by art enthusiasts from around the world.

Q83.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Select the option that arranges
the parts in the correct sequence to form a meaningful sentence.
(P) kindness and empathy
(Q) in a world that can be
(O) bring light and positivity
(R) harsh and challenging
(A) ROQP
(B) QROP
(C) QRPO
(D) PORQ

Q84.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Select the option that arranges
the parts in the correct sequence to form a meaningful sentence.
(P) unlock their potential
(Q) empowers individuals to
(O) and shape their future
(R) the power of education
(A) QROP
(B) RPOQ
(C) RQPO
(D) OPRQ

Q85.
Select the sentence that does NOT have a spelling error.
(A) The focus of the exibition is to reinforce versatility and creative thinking.
(B) The insouciance of the rock star considering the importance of the occasion, came as a shock to the audience who expected stressful moments.
(C) The artist received recognition for her impressive etchings, buclic landscapes, and recreation of natural scenes around her.
(D) The paintings are structured chronologically, starting from cubism to surealism.

Q86.
Select the option that correctly expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The teachers of our school have already taken this training.
(A) This training has already been taken by the teachers of our school.
(B) This training has already been taken by the our school teachers.
(C) This training was already taken by the teachers of our school.
(D) This training has been taken by the teachers of our school.

Q87.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
RN Right’s literary works helped redefine discussions in race relations in America in
the mid-20th century.
(A) to race relations in America
(B) beside race relations in America
(C) of race relations in America
(D) by race relations in America

Q88.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
After the concert was over, / they go to a restaurant, / had dinner together / and talked
until midnight.
(A) they go to a restaurant
(B) had dinner together
(C) and talked until midnight
(D) After the concert was over

Q89.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Select the option that arranges
the parts in the correct sequence to form a meaningful sentence.
(P) an open mind
(Q) seek it with
(O) for personal growth and development
(R) knowledge is a powerful tool
(A) QROP
(B) ORPQ
(C) PQRO
(D) ROQP

Q90.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Historians tell us how this country was divided into three.
(A) We have been told by historians how this country was divided into three.
(B) We are told by historians how this country divided into three.
(C) We are told by historians how this country was divided into three.
(D) We are told by historians how this country has been divided into three.

Q91.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Select the option that arranges
the parts in the correct sequence to form a meaningful sentence.
(P) dreams provide an escape
(Q) where reality is suspended
(R) into a world
(O) of endless possibilities
(A) QORP
(B) OPQR
(C) PROQ
(D) RPOQ

Q92.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
This book giving us much information about our freedom fighters who lost their lives
while serving our motherland.
(A) give us much information
(B) give us many information
(C) gives us much information
(D) gives us many information

Q93.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
P. and has also created a wide gap between them
Q. laid too much stress on
R. teachers and students
S. online mode of education has
(A) SQRP
(B) PSQR
(C) RQPS
(D) SRPQ

Q94.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Select the option that arranges
the parts in the correct sequence to form a meaningful sentence.
(P) hard work and perseverance
(Q) no matter how difficult
(O) lead to success
(R) the journey may seem
(A) ORQP
(B) RPQO
(C) POQR
(D) RPOQ

Q95.
Ina circular race of 750 m, X and Y start from the same point and at the same time with
speeds of 9 km/h and 13.5 km/h, respectively. If they are running in the same direction
then, when will they meet again for the first time on the track?
(A) 500 seconds
(B) 600 seconds
(C) 900 seconds
(D) 750 seconds

Q96.
Read the sentence carefully and select the most suitable idiom to fill in the blank.
The renowned publisher decided to withdraw a book from the market. No one was
interested in the book as the arguments presented were ____________.
(A) under the rose
(B) high and mighty
(C) beside the mark
(D) out of the woods

Q97.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
No sooner did Mr. Piyahri Mishra finish his chemistry lecture that the students began
to leave.
(A) than the students began to leave.
(B) then the students began to leave.
(C) so the students began to leave.
(D) and the students began to leave.

Q98.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
A famous company conducted the workshop for its customers.
(A) The workshop were conducted by a famous company for its customers.
(B) The workshop was conducted by a famous company for its customers.
(C) The workshop is conducted by a famous company for its customers.
(D) The workshop had been conducted by a famous company for its customers.

Q99.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If no substitution is required, select ‘No substitution’.
No matter how hard work you, your boss will not recognise your efforts.
(A) no substitution
(B) hard you work
(C) hardly you work
(D) work you do hard

Q100.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined word segment in the
given sentence.
Sanat has just arrived in Mysore on transfer; he requests his friend Raghu to help him
find an appropriate location.
(A) a suitable elevation
(B) a rented accommodation
(C) a proper junction
(D) an allocation recommendation

Q101.
Given below are four jumbled sentences. Select the option that gives their correct
logical sequence.
A. The world’s biggest radio telescope is in Puerto Rico.
B. It is called Arecibo dish.
C. It was built 40 years ago.
D. It is also 300 metres across.
(A) ABDC
(B) DCAB
(C) CBDA
(D) DCBA

Q102.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
My sister and I / work very hard / nevertheless my brother does not do / any task
assigned to him.
(A) work very hard
(B) My sister and I
(C) nevertheless my brother does not do
(D) any task assigned to him.

Q103.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If no substitution is required, select ‘No substitution’.
If it had not rained, they would not postpone the programmes.
(A) would be postponed
(B) no substitution
(C) would not have postponed
(D) would not postponed

Q104.
Select the most appropriate option that has the same meaning as the italicised
segment.
His illness became a blessing in disguise when he married his nurse.
(A) an apparent misfortune that eventually has good results
(B) when someone finds it difficult to choose between two alternatives
(C) deal with a problem if and when it becomes necessary
(D) to present a counter- argument

Q105.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
I have booked an apartment in the new residential colony.
(A) An apartment had been booked by me in the new residential colony.
(B) An apartment have been booked by me in the new residential colony.
(C) An apartment has been booked by me in the new residential colony.
(D) An apartment is been booked by me in the new residential colony.

Q106.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Select the option that arranges
the parts in the correct sequence to form a meaningful sentence.
(P) the sun
(Q) to our planet, Earth
(O) provides essential energy
(R) sustaining life and warmth
(A) QROP
(B) POQR
(C) ROQP
(D) ORPQ

Q107.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
(O) attitude is
(P) or tendency in individuals
(Q) a broad-based behaviour
(R) which implies
(S) a hypothetical postulate
(A) OSRQP
(B) SQPRO
(C) OPQRS
(D) OPSRQ

Q108.
Select the option that expresses the following sentence in active voice.
The issue has been successfully resolved by the customer care team.
(A) The customer care team has successfully resolved the issue.
(B) The issue has successfully resolved the customer care team.
(C) The customer care team successfully resolves the issue.
(D) The customer care team successfully resolved the issue.

Q109.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If no substitution is required, select ‘No substitution’.
Satya is always great to his friends who helped him when he was in trouble.
(A) grateful
(B) no substitution
(C) thanked
(D) greatful

Q110.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Select the option that gives their
correct logical sequence and forms a meaningful sentence.
In November, Lakshman fell (P) / with fever (Q) / seriously ill (R) and pneumonia (S).
(A) P, Q, R, S
(B) P, R, Q, S
(C) R, Q, S, P
(D) P, Q, S, R

Q111.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
The contract was grabbed by the biggest telecom company in India.
(A) The biggest telecom company in India grabs the contract.
(B) The biggest telecom company in India grabbed the contract.
(C) The biggest telecom company in India will grab the contract.
(D) The biggest telecom company in India has grabbed the contract.

Q112.
Select the option that spots the error in the use of preposition in the given sentence.
Deepa and Seema are both good with running, but Deepa is also good at catching the
ball and throwing it to the right corner in time.
(A) in time
(B) at catching the ball
(C) to the right corner.
(D) good with running

Q113.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
A. So I am not very sure
B. I have a driving license
C. Of myself reaching home safely
D. But no real driving experience
(A) BDAC
(B) BCAD
(C) CABD
(D) BDCA

Q114.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined part in the
following sentence.
We all have to pull our socks up for the upcoming Board exam, if we want to get
outstanding grades.
(A) revive interest in old matters
(B) calm down impudent contempt
(C) act in a proper manner
(D) work harder than before

Q115.
In the question, four alternatives are given for the underlined word in the sentence.
Choose the alternative which best expresses the opposite meaning of the word.
It was as if the newer hybrids had an insatiable appetite for chemicals.
(A) Curbed
(B) Urgent
(C) Pressing
(D) Satisfiable

Q116.
Select the sentence that contains a spelling error.
(A) Fermented apple juice is touted to have many health benefits though most are anecdotal and not supported by scientific facts.
(B) It is important for scientists to acknowledge their humanity and the implications of their inventions.
(C) Intriguing as it is, the house was never sold because it was thought to be haunted.
(D) There are many believes about ancient artefacts that some of them are patently not true.

Q117.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The team always anticipate a bowling friendly pitch on their easy victory in the T20
matches.
(A) pitch over their easy victory
(B) pitch to their easy victory
(C) pitch for their easy victory
(D) pitch of their easy victory

Q118.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Transnational linkages, for example, sever the nation-state’s integrity and corrupt
state-society relations.
(A) cohesion and erode
(B) divergence and relativity
(C) severance and revolution
(D) controversy and diminution

Q119.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined part of the following
sentence.
The playwright has faced many ups and downs in his literary career, which spanned
for almost 30 years.
(A) much truth and falsehood
(B) much light and darkness
(C) many agreements and disagreements
(D) many good and bad times

Q120.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
(A) while the employees
(B) meeting on time
(C) the boss arrived at the
(D) despite the heavy traffic
(E) were late
(A) BACED
(B) DCBAE
(C) DACEB
(D) ACEDB

Q121.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment in
which the article has been used INCORRECTLY.
UNESCO works to / strengthen an intellectual / and moral solidarity / of humankind.
(A) strengthen an intellectual
(B) of humankind.
(C) and moral solidarity
(D) UNESCO works to

Q122.
Select the most appropriate option that means the same as the underlined group of
words to fill in the blank.
Most of the rivers dry up during the summer season, but the Ganga is full of water
round the year because it is __________.
(A) biennial
(B) annual
(C) perennial
(D) biannual

Q123.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a spelling error.
Big Data has inandated / the education industry. / It has transformed it / by leaps and
bounds.
(A) Big Data has inandated
(B) It has transformed it
(C) by leaps and bounds
(D) the education industry

Q124.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Having known that / the train was already on the platform, / they ran fastly / to catch it.
(A) they ran fastly
(B) Having known that
(C) to catch it
(D) the train was already on the platform

Q125.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
(A) to become severely seasick
(B) a world tour, but he was
(C) a nervous flyer and tended
(D) he wanted to go on
(A) DBCA
(B) ADBC
(C) CADB
(D) BADC

Q126.
The following sentence contains a word with a spelling error. Rectify the sentence by
selecting the correct spelling of the identified word from the given options.
Later on, he was truely apologetic for his misconduct in the meeting.
(A) Truily
(B) Trooly
(C) Truly
(D) Treuly

Q127.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Mr. Adhil called back but he wasn’t able to find the scooter part he needed.
(A) called down but he wasn’t able to
(B) called up to but he wasn’t able to
(C) called off but he wasn’t able to
(D) called around but he wasn’t able to

Q128.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
The leader of the Legislative Assembly won the hearts of the members through his
maiden speech during the session in state council.
(A) closure speech
(B) first speech
(C) logical speech
(D) final speech

Q129.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
The letter was being typed by the secretary when the phone rang.
(A) The secretary will type the letter when the phone rings.
(B) The secretary is typing the letter when the phone rings.
(C) The secretary was typing the letter when the phone rang.
(D) The secretary types the letter when the phone rings.

Q130.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error in the usage of the interjection.
He replied / in a dry tone, / “Ouch! I will not work / for you anymore.”
(A) in a dry tone
(B) He replied
(C) for you anymore.”
(D) ''Ouch! I will not work

Q131.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word in the following sentence
to fill in the blank.
The media, these days, constructs ________(misleading) narratives on politics and
celebrities to increase the viewership.
(A) candid
(B) sincere
(C) mendacious
(D) true

Q132.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
This year’s budget is unlikely to pass as law since the president’s proposed budgets
typically face a jaundiced eye but this one has gotten even more scepticism.
(A) Jealousy
(B) Good will
(C) Confidence
(D) Resentment

Q133.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Radhika stood by Monica’s side through thick and thin.
(A) Under easy situations wherein she could ensure Monica’s safety and security
(B) In all the happy moments, personally spending most of her time
(C) In the moments when Monica couldn’t complete some simple tasks
(D) Under all conditions, no matter how challenging or difficult

Q134.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
A. needs to be
B. the shelf in
C. a piece of wood
D. the kitchen
E. need to buy
F. replaced, so I will
(A) BDAFEC
(B) ACDBFE
(C) DEBACF
(D) BEFCAD

Q135.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Every students in the hostel decided to travel to Delhi to witness the Republic Day
parade.
(A) Republic Day Parade.
(B) to witness the
(C) Every students in the hostel
(D) decided to travel to Delhi

Q136.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Nina has not yet learned how to straighten up and fly right.
(A) be professional in flying the aircraft
(B) forget the wrongdoings of the others
(C) improve her absurd behaviour and act seriously
(D) remember the past and prepare for the future

Q137.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
We took dinner in a Chinese restaurant and were amazed to see the interior of a
restaurant.
(A) in a Chinese restaurant
(B) and were amazed to see
(C) the interior of a restaurant
(D) We took dinner

Q138.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
The lions became violently / when the visitors / started throwing / stones at them.
(A) The lions became violently
(B) when the visitors
(C) started throwing
(D) stones at them.

Q139.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The cashier had finished the assigned task on time.
(A) The assigned task was finished by the cashier on time.
(B) The assigned task has been finished by the cashier on time.
(C) The assigned task had been finished by the cashier on time.
(D) The assigned task is finished by the cashier on time.

Q140.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
In industries, it is very common to observe that people show undue favour to one’s
own relative during the hiring process.
(A) nepotism
(B) liberalism
(C) racism
(D) communism

Q141.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Please go and meet the chairperson. / She will be / away for the / few next days.
(A) away for the
(B) few next days.
(C) Please go and meet the chairperson.
(D) She will be

Q142.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
He will give a lecture on personality development.
(A) A lecture on personality development will be given by him.
(B) A lecture on personality development will be giving by him.
(C) A lecture on personality development can be given by him.
(D) A lecture will be given on personality development.

Q143.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word in the following sentence
to fill in the blank.
The elaborate syllabi had to be ________(summarised) to make a presentation in the
UGC assessment meeting.
(A) recapitulated
(B) expanded
(C) prolonged
(D) lengthened

Q144.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
A. The upper part of the river
B. Continuous rain on
C. Week, there had been
D. During the previous
(A) ADCB
(B) DBAC
(C) DCBA
(D) ABCD

Q145.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
A: new facts and advanced
B: but my opinion is
C: he has discovered
D: unchanged
E: new arguments
(A) BDAEC
(B) EBDCA
(C) DACBE
(D) CAEBD

Q146.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
He always wants to be in the company of those who are intellectually superior than
him.
(A) those who are intellectually
(B) superior than him.
(C) He always wants to
(D) be in the company of

Q147.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined part in the
following sentence.
The entire speech of the revivalist fell flat with the crowd that was present there.
(A) had somewhat of a result on
(B) had a great impact on
(C) had moderate influence on
(D) had no effect on

Q148.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word in the following sentence
to fill in the blank.
During Covid times, many organisations made ________(sentimental) appeals to raise
funds for migrant workers.
(A) practical
(B) mawkish
(C) cynical
(D) sincere

Q149.
The following sentence contains a word with a spelling error. Rectify the sentence by
selecting the correct spelling of the identified word from the given options.
I was upstaires when somebody rang the doorbell.
(A) Upstares
(B) Upstairs
(C) upsatires
(D) Upstaire

Q150.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The mother asked the child, “Will you tell me who did accompany you to the airport?”
(A) who accompanies you
(B) who does accompany you
(C) who accompanied you
(D) who must be accompanied you

Q151.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Kamal is not willing to purchase a house on the 12th floor of a sea-side apartment, as
she is fearful of heights. She is suffering from ___________.
(A) heliophobia
(B) sociophobia
(C) claustrophobia
(D) acrophobia

Q152.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the
given sentence.
He was an irresponsible person to the matter of taking up responsibilities.
(A) in the matter of taking up
(B) at the matter of taking up
(C) by the matter of taking up
(D) along the matter of taking up

Q153.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
(A) a lot
(B) my daily routine
(C) i have missed
(D) since my retirement
(E) at the workplace
(A) BEADC
(B) BACED
(C) CBEAD
(D) BADEC

Q154.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
Trigonometry has been taught by him for donkey’s years.
(A) He has been teaching trigonometry for donkey’s years.
(B) He had been teaching trigonometry for donkey’s years.
(C) He is teaching trigonometry for donkey’s years.
(D) He has been trigonometry teaching for donkey’s years.

Q155.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
His parents didn’t allow him to enrol in the arts college because he is a dabbler in arts,
science or literature.
(A) Taciturn
(B) Connoisseur
(C) Dilettante
(D) Ignoramus

Q156.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the phrase in bold.
Your so-called friend has cooked your goose.
(A) To interfere with, disrupt or ruin something for someone
(B) When something develops completely and reaches maturity; when a child becomes an adult
(C) To complete a lot of work or a wide range of things
(D) To spend a lot of time and energy but achieve nothing

Q157.
Select the word segment that can substitute the bracketed word segment correctly
and complete the sentence meaningfully.
We will have to (put the meeting away) as the Director is not well.
(A) put the meeting up
(B) put the meeting again
(C) put the meeting on
(D) put the meeting off

Q158.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
Mr. Abhilash and his family / have received / no informations / about the incident.
(A) about the incident.
(B) Mr. Abhilash and his family
(C) have received
(D) no informations

Q159.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Athens was suffering under the rule of a powerful small group that had no concern for
the people's welfare.
(A) an oligarchy
(B) a monarchy
(C) a missionary
(D) a democracy

Q160.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
He wrote an inspiring speech for the event.
(A) An inspiring speech was written by him for the event.
(B) An inspiring speech was being written by him for the event.
(C) An inspiring speech has been written by him for the event.
(D) An inspiring speech is written by him for the event.

Q161.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the
given sentence.
Ranjith failed in all his exams as he had been addicted of social media.
(A) as he had been addicted to
(B) as he had been addicted at
(C) as he had been addicted on
(D) as he had been addicted in

Q162.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
After months of dedication and effort, I finally completed the marathon. I can really
_______________ for this accomplishment.
(A) up a creek without a paddle
(B) eat like a horse
(C) pat myself on the back
(D) blow hot and cold

Q163.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Select the option that has the
segment with a grammatical error.
We were on the way/ to the party;/ suddenly, there/ will a heavy downpour.
(A) suddenly, there
(B) will a heavy downpour.
(C) We were on the way
(D) to the party

Q164.
Select the correctly spelt word to fill in the blank.
Calder Hall is a nuclear power station in England which is known as the first nuclear
power station to generate electricity for ___________ purposes.
(A) comercial
(B) comercail
(C) commerceil
(D) commercial

Q165.
Complete the sentence with the most appropriate set of ANTONYMS of the highlighted
word. .
‘Grisly’.
The other day Jimmy behaved _______ with Jammy and that was quite _______ for me.
(A) pleasantly , comforting
(B) rudely, attractive
(C) ghastly, shameless
(D) disgusting, atrocious

Q166.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
My brother performed / extremely good / in the class test / held yesterday.
(A) held yesterday
(B) extremely good
(C) in the class test
(D) My brother performed

Q167.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Select the option that has the
segment with a grammatical error.
Two of the world’s / best forwards / has played alongside / David Beckham.
(A) has played alongside
(B) best forwards
(C) Two of the world’s
(D) David Beckham.

Q168.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Ranveer never has the habit of making a beeline for his academic activities.
(A) behaving abnormally
(B) immediately responding to things
(C) going straight and quick
(D) selecting inconsiderately

Q169.
Select the option that expresses the following sentence in active voice.
The letter will be delivered by the postman tomorrow.
(A) The postman delivered the letter tomorrow
(B) The postman will deliver the letter tomorrow.
(C) The postman will have delivered the letter tomorrow.
(D) The postman will be delivering the letter tomorrow.

Q170.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
It is nothing else your pride which makes you say such a thing.
(A) else but your pride which make
(B) else your pride that makes
(C) else but your pride which makes
(D) else your pride which make

Q171.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
The question papers are placed in the lockers of the school in a way that they can’t be
reached.
(A) are affable
(B) are irrepressible
(C) are affordable
(D) are inaccessible

Q172.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
It is very hard for her to provide the necessities of her family .
(A) the necessities to her family
(B) the necessities from her families
(C) the necessity of her family
(D) the necessities by her family

Q173.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words in the following sentence.
Almost immediately, they heard the high shrill piercing cry of tires on the side road.
(A) beseech
(B) screech
(C) creche
(D) bleach

Q174.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
He was given a reward for his contribution by the Governor.
(A) The governor rewarded him.
(B) For his contribution, he was rewarded by the governor.
(C) The governor gave him a reward for his contribution.
(D) Rewarded by the governor, as he contributed along.

Q175.
Select the option that expresses the following sentence in passive voice.
Gill scored 3 centuries in Tata IPL 2023
(A) 3 centuries had been scored by Gill in Tata IPL 2023.
(B) 3 centuries were scored by Gill in Tata IPL 2023.
(C) 3 centuries has been scored by Gill in Tata IPL 2023.
(D) 3 centuries were being scored by Gill in Tata IPL 2023.

Q176.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined part in the
following sentence.
Everyone called the reporter a daredevil after he came back safely from the war zone.
(A) a fearless person
(B) a hypocrite
(C) a common man
(D) an insignificant person

Q177.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Roshan, it’s time for you to give your speech to the whole school, wishing you luck to
do well.
(A) break a leg
(B) hands down
(C) high five
(D) down in the dumps

Q178.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The chef prepares the meal with great care.
(A) The meal has been prepared with great care by the chef.
(B) The meal will be prepared with great care by the chef.
(C) The meal is prepared with great care by the chef.
(D) The meal was prepared with great care by the chef.

Q179.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill the blank in the given situation.
I thought Sadhna would always stick by me, but when I got into trouble, she turned out
to be a/an ___________.
(A) white elephant
(B) fair-weather friend
(C) hard nut to crack
(D) open secret

Q180.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
They have built a new bridge across the river.
(A) A new bridge by them has been built across the river.
(B) A new bridge has built across the river by them.
(C) The river has been built a new bridge by them.
(D) A new bridge has been built across the river by them.

Q181.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
The teacher asked him not to keep disturbing the class, but it had no affect.
(A) him not to keep
(B) The teacher asked
(C) but it had no affect.
(D) disturbing the class

Q182.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
Dr. Sinha has / brought about a new / book on social / impact of child labour.
(A) Dr. Sinha has
(B) book on social
(C) brought about a new
(D) impact of child labour

Q183.
Select the term which means the same as the given group of words.
A continuing unpleasant situation, created when one problem causes another problem
that then makes the first problem worse
(A) Round cycle
(B) Repetitive cycle
(C) Vicious cycle
(D) Enclosed cycle

Q184.
Out of the four sentences given, three have spelling errors. Identify the sentence that
has no spelling error.
(A) She tried to manoeuvre her trolley around people.
(B) The computer's software detected an anamoly caused by a virus.
(C) What advice did he give to young entreprenuers?
(D) A clergyman read the litturgy from the prayer-book.

Q185.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined word segment in the
given sentence.
A herd of cattle consists of related females, cubs, and a small number of adult males.
(A) pride of lions
(B) school of fish
(C) flock of birds
(D) pack of wolves

Q186.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the
given sentence.
Rare species of frogs were very quicker identified by Stella.
(A) of frogs were very quickly
(B) to frogs were very quickly
(C) of frogs were very quicklier
(D) in frogs were very quicker

Q187.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
Mrs. Sreelakshmi’s / musical intelligence / is superior than / Mrs. Suma’s.
(A) Mrs. Sreelakshmi’s
(B) musical intelligence
(C) Mrs. Suma’s.
(D) is superior than

Q188.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Experts acknowledged that some counterfeiting of document techniques are virtually
impossible to detect.
(A) frenzy
(B) forgery
(C) fiasco
(D) impromptu

Q189.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM to replace the word in brackets.
The author's writing was so captivating that readers were [enthralled], while the other
book left them completely uninterested.
(A) agreement
(B) interested
(C) intrigued
(D) bored

Q190.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
They are building a new hospital in the city.
(A) A new hospital will be built in the city by them.
(B) A new hospital was built in the city by them.
(C) A new hospital is being built in the city by them.
(D) A new hospital has been built in the city by them.

Q191.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word in the following sentence
to fill in the blank.
The mothers, who suffer from postpartum depression, feel ______ by their children.
(vexed)
(A) delighted
(B) pacific
(C) annoyed
(D) recovered

Q192.
Select the correct idiom to substitute the underlined segment in the following
sentence.
Due to her impoverished state, most of her relatives treated her with contempt.
(A) Gave a wide space to her
(B) Turned up their nose at her
(C) Turned the corner at her
(D) Came in handy

Q193.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
The drug pedlar was arrested by the narcotics team.
(A) The narcotics team arrest the drug pedlar.
(B) The narcotics team has arrested the drug pedlar.
(C) The narcotics team was arrested the drug pedlar.
(D) The narcotics team arrested the drug pedlar.

Q194.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
One must be confident of winning and gaining one’s goals and must face situations,
disasters, trials and setbecks of life with confidence.
(A) Setbecks
(B) Trials
(C) Disasters
(D) Confident

Q195.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
By the end of / this month, he / will been working / for five years.
(A) will been working
(B) By the end of
(C) this month, he
(D) for five years

Q196.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following
sentence to fill in the blank.
Most of the land near the town is barren, but the efforts of the farmers have turned it
(A) sterile
(B) unfruitful
(C) infertile
(D) fertile

Q197.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
Anand personally believes in the motto, “When life gives you lemons, make
lemonade.”
(A) Earn the maximum out of business
(B) Nourish health
(C) Enjoy the most when the season is favourable
(D) Make the best out of difficult situations

Q198.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
I had not only helped her by giving hints but also with providing her links.
(A) helped her not only by
(B) helped not only her by
(C) helped her only by
(D) helped her not by

Q199.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
While I was walking to the store, my friend calls me and ask for a favour.
(A) my friend calls me and ask
(B) for a favour
(C) to the store
(D) While I was walking

Q200.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the following sentence and select its correct
spelling from the given options.
His acquiantance with the author led to many fruitful collaborations.
(A) acuiantance
(B) acquaintance
(C) aquaintance
(D) acquaintence

Q201.
Select the most appropriate option that can rectify the incorrectly spelt word in the
following sentence.
In our quest for power, we often fail to acknowlege the existence of other people.
(A) acknowledge
(B) accknowledge
(C) acknowlede
(D) acknowledje

Q202.
Select the option that correctly expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
I will never overlook this creativity.
(A) This creativity will never be overlooked by me.
(B) This creativity will be overlooked by me.
(C) This creativity will being overlooked by me.
(D) This creativity will not never be overlooked by me.

Q203.
Select the correct meaning of the underlined idiom in the following sentence.
Rina pulled a long face since her husband had not bought her a diamond necklace on
their anniversary.
(A) To be ecstatic
(B) To be euphoric
(C) To be electrified
(D) To look saddened

Q204.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
My sisters wished me good luck before I went on the stage to sing.
(A) Told me to break an arm
(B) Told me to break the ice
(C) Told me to sit on the fence
(D) Told me to break a leg

Q205.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
She was foolish enough to think that she be completely safe now.
(A) is completely safe
(B) have been completely safe
(C) has being completely safe
(D) were completely safe

Q206.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word from the following sentence.
Barren
"Can you believe how much traffic there is today?", grumbled Tom, glancing at the
congested road ahead.
(A) Grumbled
(B) Glancing
(C) Believe
(D) Congested

Q207.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following
sentence to fill in the blank.
Most of the flowers bloom in the spring season but they start to ________ during
summer.
(A) flush
(B) flourish
(C) blossom
(D) wither

Q208.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
We, as human beings, have a tendency of believing in the things that can be seen and
touched.
(A) tangible
(B) inexpressible
(C) impalpable
(D) spiritual

Q209.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
Out of those group members, Rohan is the one who opposes others, no matter what
they tell him.
(A) anatomist
(B) antagonist
(C) protagonist
(D) agonist

Q210.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The team will announce the winner tomorrow.
(A) The winner will be announced by the team tomorrow.
(B) The winner will announce tomorrow by the team.
(C) Tomorrow will be announced the winner by the team.
(D) The team will announce tomorrow the winner.

Q211.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
Rahul won the extempore competition. He is lucky to be blessed with the gift of the
gab.
(A) A lucky person
(B) An honest person
(C) A talent for speaking
(D) A big surprise

Q212.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Solutions to the country’s interior problems are still a long way away.
(A) a long way away.
(B) the country’s interior
(C) problems are still
(D) Solutions to

Q213.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
A period of free outdoor play can provide a very necessary respite from the hustle and
bustle of the day.
(A) Progression
(B) Commencement
(C) Break
(D) Continuation

Q214.
Select the sentence that does NOT have a spelling error.
(A) She is very particular about pronounciation in her classes.
(B) The movie was very successful in the urban areas, but not among rural audiences.
(C) There wedding was during the summer, which is why we didn’t attend it.
(D) There were no intermittent showers in the city, as was predicted during the whether forecast.

Q215.
Select the option that expresses the following sentence in active voice.
The novels of Dickens are being read by Mayank.
(A) Mayank had been reading the novels of Dickens.
(B) Mayank is reading the novels of Dickens.
(C) Mayank was reading the novels of Dickens.
(D) Mayank has been reading the novels of Dickens.

Q216.
Select the option that correctly expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The shareholders will elect him a director.
(A) The shareholders have elected him a director.
(B) He will be elected as director by the shareholders.
(C) The shareholders elected him a director.
(D) He will be elected a director.

Q217.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
The police told the agitators to back in, else they would lathi-charge.
(A) The police told
(B) the agitators to back in
(C) lathi-charge
(D) else they would

Q218.
Select the option that correctly expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Why didn’t she bring her son to my house?
(A) Why isn’t her son brought to my house?
(B) Why wasn’t her son brought to my house?
(C) Why wasn’t her son brought by her to my house?
(D) Why isn’t her son brought by you to my house?

Q219.
Select the word segment that can substitute the bracketed word segment correctly
and complete the sentence meaningfully.
(Each participant have) performed well.
(A) Each participant has
(B) Each participant were
(C) Each participant was
(D) Each participant have been

Q220.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A small group of people who spend their time together and do not welcome other
people into that group
(A) Clique
(B) Employees
(C) Lobby
(D) Squad

Q221.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
I will be gifted a fancy doll by them the next day.
(A) They will gift me a fancy doll tomorrow.
(B) They gift me a fancy doll the previous day.
(C) They gifted me a fancy doll yesterday.
(D) They are gifting me a fancy doll the next day.

Q222.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
The principal gave up / the prizes to / the winners on / Republic Day.
(A) the prizes to
(B) the winners on
(C) Republic Day
(D) The principal gave up

Q223.
Select the option that correctly expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Mr. Amar refused him admittance.
(A) Admittance would be refused to him by Mr. Amar.
(B) Admittance shall be refused to him by Mr. Amar.
(C) Admittance was refused to him by Mr. Amar.
(D) Admittance will be refused to him by Mr. Amar.

Q224.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
His father’s arm was bandaged by the kind nurse.
(A) The kind nurse bandaged his father’s arm.
(B) The kind nurse bandages his father’s arm.
(C) The kind nurse has bandaged his father’s arm.
(D) The kind nurse had bandaged his father’s arm.

Q225.
Select the most appropriate verb / verb phrase to fill in the blank.
They ________________ their house for the past two months, and it’s finally starting to
look fantastic.
(A) has renovated
(B) have been renovating
(C) were renovating
(D) will renovate

Q226.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
She believed she had been blamed for the mistakes of others for what happened.
(A) Made a sceptic
(B) Made a savage
(C) Made a spinster
(D) Made a scapegoat

Q227.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
A. Smoking in
B. Your youth stunts
C. The body and
D. Clouds the brain
(A) DCBA
(B) DBCA
(C) ABCD
(D) CABD

Q228.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
They are organising a concert for charity.
(A) A concert is being organised by them for charity.
(B) They are organising a charity concert.
(C) A concert for charity is organising by them.
(D) They are being organised a concert for charity.

Q229.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment in
which the article has been used INCORRECTLY.
Master Sam / is a heaviest / boy in / grade twelve.
(A) Master Sam
(B) grade twelve.
(C) is a heaviest
(D) boy in

Q230.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
P) once said
Q) a wise man
R) that action speaks
S) louder than words
(A) SQPR
(B) QSRP
(C) PQRS
(D) QPRS

Q231.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
I'm _______________ about whether to accept the job offer or continue freelancing.
Both options have their advantages.
(A) up in arms
(B) left out in cold
(C) on the fence
(D) cutting corners

Q232.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
To tell others secret information only for enjoyment is not a good practice.
(A) spill the words
(B) spill the cat
(C) spill the beans
(D) spill the onions

Q233.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Each candidate was making tall promises.
(A) Tall promises will be made by each candidate.
(B) Tall promises are being made by each candidate.
(C) Tall promises are made by each candidate.
(D) Tall promises were being made by each candidate.

Q234.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
Humour that describes the weaknesses of the other person is itself a crime among
peer groups.
(A) Satire
(B) Attire
(C) A curse
(D) A joke

Q235.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
He and his friends / does not / want to / attend the meeting.
(A) attend the meeting
(B) want to
(C) does not
(D) He and his friends

Q236.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Rohan exercised and ate a lot, lest he should not be weak .
(A) lest he should be weak
(B) lest he should not weak
(C) lest he would be weak
(D) lest he would not be weak.

Q237.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
A. Only for themselves
B. Is full of
C. People who live
D. The world
(A) BCAD
(B) ABCD
(C) DBAC
(D) DBCA

Q238.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
The windows / violent banged / during the / storm yesterday.
(A) The windows
(B) storm yesterday.
(C) during the
(D) violent banged

Q239.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
After years of fights with his neighbour Ram, Shekhar decided to hold out the _______
and invited Ram for tea.
(A) poker face
(B) comparing apples to oranges
(C) chip on shoulder
(D) olive branch

Q240.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Ashoka was the greatest than all the Mauryan Emperors .
(A) to other Mauryan Emperors
(B) of the Mauryan Emperors
(C) to all another Mauryan Emperors
(D) all Mauryan Emperors

Q241.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
We should clean the house regularly.
(A) The house should be cleaned regularly by us.
(B) The house should be being cleaned regularly by us.
(C) The house should be clean regularly by us.
(D) The house should have been cleaned regularly by us.

Q242.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
The tea at this café is best than at the Costa Café in our office.
(A) in our office
(B) at the Costa Café
(C) The tea at this café
(D) is best than

Q243.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Five years later, I was eating this same dish at the same restaurant.
(A) had been eating
(B) am eating
(C) has been eating
(D) will have be eating

Q244.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
Instead of confusing others, let us call a spade a spade in front of the audience.
(A) Be at strife
(B) Remain silent
(C) Pretend superiority
(D) Speak truthfully

Q245.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Select the option that has the
segment with a grammatical error.
Jerry driving / home late / when the incident / took place.
(A) Jerry driving
(B) took place.
(C) when the incident
(D) home late

Q246.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an adverbial usage error.
Mr. Arun / will pay dear / for his / financial mistake.
(A) Mr. Arun
(B) financial mistake
(C) for his
(D) will pay dear

Q247.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The chair I have bought recently is costly than what I bought last year.
(A) will be costly
(B) is costlier
(C) was costly
(D) is the costliest

Q248.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM for the underlined word in the given sentence.
Despite his annoyance, Rahul knew that rushing the delicate process would only lead
to mistakes.
(A) Absurdity
(B) Susceptibility
(C) Serenity
(D) Gnawer

Q249.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
He has written a best-selling novel.
(A) A best-selling novel has been written by him.
(B) A best-selling novel was written by him.
(C) A best-selling novel was being written by him
(D) A best-selling novel would have been written by him.

Q250.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined part of the following
sentence.
My brother always received the lion’s share of every meal that we had.
(A) the major portion
(B) the pet’s share
(C) the last bite
(D) a very small part

Q251.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
Mr. Surya / have no interior / motive in offering / you support.
(A) you support.
(B) Mr. Surya
(C) have no interior
(D) motive in offering

Q252.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
No other place in this country is so better as Gulmarg, Kashmir.
(A) No other place
(B) in this country is
(C) so better as
(D) Gulmarg, Kashmir

Q253.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Will you give me an independent project?
(A) Would an independent project be given?
(B) Would I be given an independent project?
(C) Will I be given an independent project by you?
(D) Will you be given an independent project by me?

Q254.
Select the most appropriate homonyms from the given alternatives to fill in the blanks.
The rowing instructor commanded them to ________ in a ________.
A.row (verb)
B.roe
C.row (sequence)
(A) A, C
(B) A, B
(C) C, A
(D) B, C

Q255.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Deepak is studying B.tech. at IIT Delhi to become the engineer.
(A) B.tech. at IIT Delhi
(B) Deepak is studying
(C) the engineer
(D) to become

Q256.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following
sentence.
In Shakespeare's The Merchant of Venice, Shylock's connivance aimed to jeopardise
Antonio's life.
(A) Safeguard
(B) Jape
(C) Risk
(D) Peril

Q257.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
We went to a legitimate Mexican restaurant for my birthday, where they served cuisine
like you would find in Mexico.
(A) productive
(B) genuine
(C) fictitious
(D) falsified

Q258.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The tutor was not teaching the student.
(A) The student was not taught by the tutor.
(B) The student was teaching the tutor.
(C) The student was not being teaching by the tutor.
(D) The student was not being taught by the tutor.

Q259.
Select the option that expresses the following sentence in active voice.
The concert tickets were bought by my friend
(A) My friend has bought the concert tickets.
(B) My friend buys the concert tickets.
(C) My friend is buying the concert tickets.
(D) My friend bought the concert tickets.

Q260.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
I have the hundred reasons to not attend the meeting tomorrow.
(A) the meeting
(B) I have the hundred reasons
(C) to not attend
(D) tomorrow

Q261.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
In those days, we did not expect luxuries; we were thankful if we could keep the wolf
from the door.
(A) Wallow in poverty
(B) Relish food
(C) Avoid starvation
(D) Encourage starvation

Q262.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
In some countries, you are not able to drink until you are 21.
(A) until you are 21.
(B) able to drink
(C) you are not
(D) In some countries

Q263.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
I have sing ‘Let It Go’ before a crowd of thousands of people.
(A) thousands of people
(B) a crowd of
(C) I have sing
(D) ‘Let It Go’ before

Q264.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
His approach was filled with such perseverance that it was difficult to overlook his
merit.
(A) Reluctance
(B) Ignorance
(C) Doggedness
(D) Monotonous

Q265.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Positive self-talk have a great affect on one’s self-worth.
(A) having a great affect
(B) has a great effect
(C) has a great affect
(D) have a great effect

Q266.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
In my new office, all employees were different, so I felt like a fish out of water.
(A) Disappointed
(B) Frustrated
(C) Homeless
(D) Uncomfortable

Q267.
Read the sentence carefully and select the ANTONYM of the underlined word from the
given options.
I heard his suggestion but I am quite unsure about the risks involved in it.
(A) Interested
(B) Certain
(C) Doubtful
(D) Thoughtful

Q268.
Select the option that correctly expresses the following sentence in passive voice.
Who invited you to this party?
(A) By whom you are invited to this party?
(B) By whom are you invited to this party?
(C) By whom you were invited to this party?
(D) By whom were you invited to this party?

Q269.
Select the most appropriate option that can rectify the incorrectly spelt word in the
following sentence.
The government has ordered for the maintainance of the roads.
(A) maintainiance
(B) maintennance
(C) maintainence
(D) maintenance

Q270.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The teenager delivered the speech.
(A) The speech has been delivered by the teenager.
(B) The speech was delivered by the teenager.
(C) The speech was being delivered by the teenager.
(D) The speech is delivered by the teenager.

Q271.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
P) achieve success
Q) when you
R) and polite
S) stay humble
(A) RQPS
(B) PQRS
(C) PRQS
(D) SRQP

Q272.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice
Someone has taken my secret diary.
(A) My secret diary has to be taken by someone.
(B) My secret diary had been taken by someone.
(C) My secret diary will have been taken by someone.
(D) My secret diary has been taken by someone.

Q273.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Sivamani is working as an electrician for the past 22 years.
(A) had been worked
(B) has been working
(C) have been working
(D) would work

Q274.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
He will be made President by the people.
(A) He will be made President by the people.
(B) By the people, he shall be made the President.
(C) The people will make him President.
(D) People will be making him the President.

Q275.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
Were the plants being grafted by the gardener?
(A) Was the gardener grafting the plants?
(B) Were the gardener grafting the plants?
(C) Was the gardener grafted the plants?
(D) Were the plants grafting the gardener?

Q276.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
He never talks / for anybody. / He is alone / all day.
(A) He is alone
(B) all day
(C) for anybody
(D) He never talks

Q277.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Her behaviour was so ostentatious that it attracted the attention of everyone in the
room.
(A) Gentle
(B) Restrained
(C) Repulsive
(D) Attractive

Q278.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the following
sentence.
Sachin Tendulkar was an indispensable member of the Indian cricket team in his days.
(A) Optional
(B) Essential
(C) Functional
(D) Motivational

Q279.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains an error.
The supermarket is open from 10 a.m. still 10 p.m.
(A) open
(B) from 10 a.m.
(C) The supermarket
(D) still 10 p.m.

Q280.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined word in the given sentence.
He is an atheist, although he respects everyone’s belief.
(A) One who believes in nature
(B) One who does not believe in God
(C) One who believes in God
(D) One who is extremist

Q281.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
On the ball
(A) Aware of any changes or developments and quick to react to them
(B) Unaware of any changes or developments and lazy to react to them
(C) Aware of any changes or developments but slow to react to them
(D) Aware of any changes or developments but doing nothing

Q282.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following
sentence.
The teammates made several jibes at the opponent team members during the
interview.
(A) Inspiration
(B) Contradict
(C) Consolation
(D) Mockery

Q283.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined word segment in the
given sentence.
I picked up my little clock and it began to dance gracefully.
(A) work agreeably
(B) move gradually
(C) lift smoothly
(D) chime prettily

Q284.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
My sister, Juliet, / got married / as her / was 23.
(A) as her
(B) My sister, Juliet
(C) got married
(D) was 23.

Q285.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Rahul thinks he is as smarter as his friends in the class.
(A) his friends
(B) he is as smarter as
(C) Rahul thinks
(D) in the class

Q286.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
O. want
P. movie tonight
Q. do you
R. to watch
S. the
(A) OSPQR
(B) RSPQO
(C) OSQPR
(D) QORSP

Q287.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Raj is very interested in studying human psychology, so he decided to pursue his
master’s degree in __________.
(A) Archaeology
(B) Psychology
(C) Philosophy
(D) Anatomy

Q288.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
People will respect his bravado.
(A) His bravado will have to be respected by people.
(B) His bravado will be respect by people.
(C) His bravado will be respected by people.
(D) His bravado will being respected by people.

Q289.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
All his friends admired him because he was a straight shooter.
(A) A thoroughly upright straightforward person
(B) Miserly and pessimistic individual
(C) Complicated and confusing person
(D) Excellent shooter

Q290.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Arushya purchased the most good of all the suits kept in the shop.
(A) the more good
(B) the goods
(C) the best
(D) the good

Q291.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
The soldier struck the enemy with the short sword fixed onto the end of the gun.
(A) Baron
(B) Bayonet
(C) Baton
(D) Bigot

Q292.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
It is he who work for the company for more than a decade.
(A) for the company
(B) for more than a decade
(C) It is he
(D) who work

Q293.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Ishika saw the tiger in the forest.
(A) The tiger saw by Ishika in the forest.
(B) The tiger sees Ishika in the forest.
(C) The tiger was seen by Ishika in the forest.
(D) The tiger was seen by the forest in Ishika.

Q294.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
O. delicious
R. she
Q. a
P. baked
S. chocolate cake
(A) SRPQO
(B) QOSRP
(C) RPQOS
(D) OPQRS

Q295.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
A comic play was performed by the comedian.
(A) The comedian do perform a comic play.
(B) The comedian performance a comic play.
(C) The comedian performed a comic play.
(D) The comedian performs a comic play.

Q296.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
Data is being collected by the researcher.
(A) The researcher is collecting data.
(B) The researcher has been collecting data.
(C) The researcher has collected data.
(D) The researcher will be collecting data.

Q297.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Meenakshi could have sent a reply.
(A) A reply could have been send by Meenakshi.
(B) A reply could have be sent by Meenakshi.
(C) A reply could have been sent by Meenakshi.
(D) A reply could have sent by Meenakshi.

Q298.
Select the sentence in which the ‘-ing’ form of verb expresses the continuity of an
action/event.
(A) I am fond of reading science fiction.
(B) The optician advised me to use reading glasses.
(C) Reading novels is my favourite pastime.
(D) Please do not disturb me. I am preparing for exams.

Q299.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the following sentence and select its correct
spelling from the given options.
The occurence of this phenomenon is quite rare.
(A) occurrence
(B) occurance
(C) occerence
(D) occurrance

Q300.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Martha made pancakes yesterday.
(A) Pancakes had been made by Martha yesterday.
(B) Pancakes were made by Martha yesterday.
(C) Pancakes were being made by Martha yesterday.
(D) Pancakes was made by Martha yesterday.

Q301.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
My cousin works day and night to achieve success in life.
(A) around the clock
(B) great dealing
(C) vale of tears
(D) a handful

Q302.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
P- for a
Q- exercise daily
R- one must
S- good body
(A) PRSQ
(B) PQRS
(C) PRQS
(D) RQPS

Q303.
Select the option that substitutes the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
In any time of crisis, there is always one mument that stands out from all the others.
(A) mumont
(B) mumunt
(C) moment
(D) momont

Q304.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
In Indian mythology, most of the Asuras wish to be never able to die.
(A) Immortal
(B) Invisible
(C) Impervious
(D) Invincible

Q305.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined
segment.
My father always tells amusing and true stories from his childhood at bedtime.
(A) anecdotes
(B) fables
(C) sonnets
(D) allegories

Q306.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined word segment in the
given sentence.
Her thinning grey hair was hanging on her bony forehead.
(A) urging ahead
(B) straggling over
(C) sinking from
(D) falling about

Q307.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Break the ice
(A) Nervousness before a performance
(B) To say or do something that makes people feel more relaxed, especially at the beginning of a meeting, party
(C) Respect for someone’s achievements
(D) Ill-feeling carried by a person over a period of time

Q308.
Select the option with the correct use of future tense.
(A) By next December, I will be completed six years in this home.
(B) By next December, I will have been completed six years in this home.
(C) By next December, I will have complete six years in this home.
(D) By next December, I will have completed six years in this home.

Q309.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
Bincy’s mother kept her cards close to her chest.
(A) Kept her plans and thoughts hidden
(B) Informed that all the cards must be kept safe
(C) Kept her purse and money by herself
(D) Decided to show more affection

Q310.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word in brackets to fill in the blank.
The________(crux) of his argument was that education should continue throughout
life.
(A) essence
(B) etiquette
(C) proposal
(D) draft

Q311.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined word in the given
sentence.
Pollution levels have increased so largely that they are almost killing us.
(A) primarily
(B) slowly
(C) highly
(D) chiefly

Q312.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Can you compose an inspiring poem?
(A) Can an inspiring poem by you composed?
(B) Can an inspiring poem be composed?
(C) An inspiring poem can be composed by you.
(D) Can an inspiring poem be composed by you?

Q313.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
We have to say little in this matter.
(A) In this matter, little is to be said.
(B) Little has to be said in this matter.
(C) In this matter, little must be said.
(D) Little had to be said in this matter.

Q314.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
a short section (as of a book) that leads to or explains the main part.
(A) Conclusion
(B) Foreword
(C) Paraphrase
(D) Postscript

Q315.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word in brackets to fill in the blank.
Listening to the same lecture everyday appeared very ___________ to him. (boring)
(A) monotonous
(B) furious
(C) monolithic
(D) nervous

Q316.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
P) always favours
Q) only the
R) fortune
S) bold
(A) RPQS
(B) SQPR
(C) SRQP
(D) PQRS

Q317.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
I are dancing with my husband at my sister’s wedding.
(A) husband at my
(B) I are dancing
(C) with my
(D) sister’s wedding

Q318.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The school will hire new teachers.
(A) New teachers will join the school.
(B) New teachers are hired by the school.
(C) New teachers will be hired by the school.
(D) The school will be hiring new teachers.

Q319.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
How have they been ordered by the minister?
(A) How has the minister ordered them?
(B) How did the minister order them?
(C) How have the minister ordered them?
(D) How had the minister ordered them?

Q320.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence.
If I was the queen, I would give a handsome sum towards education.
(A) will be the queen
(B) would be the queen
(C) have been the queen
(D) were the queen

Q321.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
P) willing to go
Q) is not
R) my son
S) camping
(A) QRSP
(B) SPRQ
(C) PQRS
(D) RQPS

Q322.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
P) her face
Q) I have
R) for a year
S) not seen
(A) SPQR
(B) PQRS
(C) QSPR
(D) PSQR

Q323.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
She has been studying for two o’clock .
(A) study from two o’clock
(B) studying since two o’clock
(C) studying two o’clock
(D) study for two o’clock

Q324.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the
given sentence.
Our legal system must frame proper legal rules for juvenile criminals.
(A) young
(B) dotage
(C) senile
(D) old

Q325.
Parts of a sentence are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the parts in the correct
order to form a meaningful sentence.
O. went
P. yesterday
Q. we
R. to the
S. park
(A) QORSP
(B) PSROQ
(C) RQOSP
(D) OPQRS

Q326.
Select the most appropriate option that can rectify the incorrectly spelt word in the
following sentence.
I doubt that these lifts can acommodate 100 people.
(A) accommodate
(B) acomodate
(C) accomodate
(D) accommodatte

Q327.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word in the brackets to fill in the blank.
She left the party ______ because of her parents’ strict time restrictions. [late]
(A) early
(B) suffer
(C) small
(D) exit

Q328.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
The cynical investors believed in every word the analysts said.
(A) persuasive
(B) credible
(C) distrustful
(D) credulous

Q329.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
I have been living in Hyderabad since I am born .
(A) since I was born
(B) since I have born
(C) since I will be born
(D) since I born

Q330.
Select the correct ANTONYM of the underlined word to fill in the blank and complete
the following sentence.
He is always active in a party but _______ in the class.
(A) angry
(B) inert
(C) careless
(D) naughty

Q331.
Substitute the underlined word-segment with most appropriate idiom.
The doctors tried very hard to save his mother but they were unsuccessful.
(A) faced the music
(B) drew the line
(C) moved heaven and earth
(D) ran like clockwork

Q332.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
The workers received a sum for the services they rendered.
(A) Remembrance
(B) Recruitment
(C) Rejuvenation
(D) Remuneration

Q333.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The long-standing feud between the two villages was settled due to the intervention of
the two chiefs.
(A) Harmony
(B) Humility
(C) Honesty
(D) Humble

Q334.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
There are many factories in the operative area of the city.
(A) industrious
(B) mechanical
(C) industrial
(D) serviceable

Q335.
Select the word OPPOSITE in meaning to the underlined word in the given sentence.
Feeling discouraged, she finally finds the motivation for pursing her goal.
(A) energetic
(B) inspired
(C) disappointed
(D) admired

Q336.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
a large, flat area surrounded by seats used for sports or entertainment
(A) Department
(B) Garden
(C) Senate
(D) Arena

Q337.
Select the option that expresses the opposite meaning of the underlined word.
The explosive used is of my own formulation, and I can vouch for its efficiency.
(A) Invalidate
(B) Maintain
(C) Witness
(D) Certify

Q338.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
His behaviour vexes me sometimes.
(A) Sometimes he vexes me with his behaviour.
(B) I am sometimes vexed by his behaviour.
(C) He is being vexing me with his behaviour
(D) His behaviour is vexed.

Q339.
Select the option that expresses the following sentence in active voice.
The car was repaired by the mechanic.
(A) The mechanic is repairing the car.
(B) The mechanic repairs the car.
(C) The mechanic has repaired the car.
(D) The mechanic repaired the car.

Q340.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given phrase.
A person who is kept captive for fulfilment of demands of money or conditions
(A) Hostage
(B) Hermit
(C) Heretic
(D) Introvert

Q341.
Select the correct meaning of the underlined idiom in the following sentence.
Lucy’s conceited conduct with her colleagues has left her high and dry
(A) Impoverished
(B) Superseding
(C) Helpless
(D) Surrounded by people

Q342.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Sharat is always ______ about showing up for work because he believes that tardiness
gets us nowhere.
(A) punctual
(B) patient
(C) selective
(D) drowsy

Q343.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
The ship launched out on a journey by water or sea of discovery.
(A) voyage
(B) verso
(C) rendezvous
(D) vespers

Q344.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the following sentence and select its correct
spelling from the given options.
I receieved a parcel in the mail today.
(A) recieved
(B) recived
(C) receaved
(D) received

Q345.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the
given sentence.
I saw a shabby looking man living in the cavity of a mountain.
(A) height
(B) elevation
(C) mound
(D) hole

Q346.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Even when he was left with plenty of fortune, he lived a frugal life.
(A) Hardworking
(B) Purposeless
(C) Thrifty
(D) Extraordinary

Q347.
Select the option that can be used as a one word substitute for the given group of
words.
An often-imaginary place or state of utter perfection and happiness
(A) Dystopia
(B) Euphoria
(C) Inferno
(D) Utopia

Q348.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the
given sentence.
An intense wish to learn something keeps the nerves active.
(A) lazy
(B) half-hearted
(C) fixed
(D) powerful

Q349.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
Why are you repeatedly called by her?
(A) Why she calls you repeatedly?
(B) Why had she called you repeatedly?
(C) Why was she calling you repeatedly?
(D) Why does she call you repeatedly?

Q350.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The children have made the box.
(A) Children had made the box.
(B) The box is being made by the children.
(C) The box has been made by the children.
(D) The box had been made by the children.

Q351.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the
given sentence.
Bankrupts are those who are incapable to pay their debts.
(A) capable
(B) incompetent
(C) powerful
(D) meagre

Q352.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined word in the given sentence.
This building is colossal and it can hold a village’s population in it.
(A) very beautiful
(B) very huge
(C) puny
(D) temporary

Q353.
Select the option that expresses the following sentence in passive voice.
He had cleaned the bathroom.
(A) The bathroom had been cleaned by him.
(B) The bathroom has been cleaned by him.
(C) The bathroom has cleaned by him.
(D) The bathroom had cleaned by him.

Q354.
Select the option that expresses the opposite meaning of the underlined word.
In front of the big screen, this behaviour is generally considered taboo.
(A) Prescription
(B) Obedience
(C) Promotion
(D) Acceptable

Q355.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who deceives others by pretending to be someone else
(A) Inaccessible
(B) Impostor
(C) Fraud
(D) Unrecognisable

Q356.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given phrase.
An important person who represents his/her country in a foreign country
(A) Ambassador
(B) Amateur
(C) Anonymous
(D) Altruist

Q357.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following
sentence.
The movie's plot was predictable, with clichéd twists and turns.
(A) undeviating
(B) unexpected
(C) evident
(D) infelicitous

Q358.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bold word in the following sentence.
His eloquent speech always persuades people to work for their betterment.
(A) Articulate
(B) Vague
(C) Inarticulate
(D) Short

Q359.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Do you know where does she reside ?
(A) where she resides?
(B) where do she reside?
(C) where she reside?
(D) where does she resides?

Q360.
Select the option that expresses the following sentence in passive voice.
The baker baked the cake.
(A) The cake had been baked by the baker.
(B) The cake has been baked by the baker.
(C) The baker has been baking the cake.
(D) The cake was baked by the baker

Q361.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
My dog / barks / very louder / at night.
(A) at night
(B) barks
(C) very louder
(D) My dog

Q362.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word to fill in the blank.
Ram failed initially but after a few years, he _________ in every field.
(A) enjoyed
(B) elevated
(C) succeeded
(D) reserved

Q363.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word in brackets to fill in the blank.
He said that he lacks the ___________ to stand in a queue. (patience)
(A) elegance
(B) acceptance
(C) endurance
(D) relevance

Q364.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Two of the fugitives managed to remain free by adeptly avoiding the____________ of
the police.
(A) discovery
(B) pursuit
(C) repression
(D) following

Q365.
Select the option that expresses the following sentence in passive voice.
Sonam does not like bananas.
(A) Bananas had not been liked by Sonam.
(B) Bananas have not been liked by Sonam.
(C) Bananas are not liked by Sonam.
(D) Banana is not liked by Sonam.

Q366.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
To go through an area making a lot of noise and causing damage
(A) Violence
(B) Cacophony
(C) Rampage
(D) Brutality

Q367.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
Lovely tunes are composed by Domnica.
(A) Domnica composes tunes lovely.
(B) Domnica will compose lovely tunes.
(C) Domnica composes lovely tunes.
(D) Domnica composed lovely tunes.

Q368.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The study of ancient things such as art, graves, ruins etc.
(A) Astrology
(B) Meteorology
(C) Archaeology
(D) Geology

Q369.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
Mr. Suman / asked me / to pack / my luggages.
(A) my luggages.
(B) to pack
(C) Mr. Suman
(D) asked me

Q370.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who is inclined to see the worst aspect of things
(A) Philanthropist
(B) Pessimist
(C) Altruist
(D) Optimist

Q371.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom/phrase.
I had heard of henpecked husbands and now, I felt that I saw one.
(A) Oppressed husband
(B) Dominating husbands
(C) Bossy husbands
(D) Controlling husband

Q372.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Inayat did not greet her.
(A) She was not greeted by Inayat.
(B) She was not going to be greeted by Inayat.
(C) She was not at all greeted by Inayat.
(D) She was not being greeted by Inayat.

Q373.
Select the option that expresses the following sentence in passive voice.
Ravi will play the match.
(A) The match is played by Ravi.
(B) The match will have been played by Ravi.
(C) The match will be playing by Ravi.
(D) The match will be played by Ravi.

Q374.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
We have postponed this movie outing too many times, so we are going tomorrow,
come _____ or shine.
(A) hail
(B) rain
(C) mountain
(D) thunder

Q375.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The appearance of most of the animals in jungle is deceptive in nature.
(A) honest
(B) ugly
(C) illusive
(D) beautiful

Q376.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The evening time when the sun has just set and it is almost dark.
(A) Night
(B) Dusk
(C) Dawn
(D) Day break

Q377.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word in brackets to fill in the blank.
She __________ requested him to pay the bills. (persistently)
(A) continuously
(B) impetuously
(C) obliviously
(D) tremendously

Q378.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following
sentence.
It was difficult to accommodate the avariciousness of the people.
(A) Criticism
(B) Envy
(C) Hatred
(D) Generosity

Q379.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The Morbi bridge mishap has left Gujarat in a deplorable state.
(A) Complaining
(B) Despicable
(C) Rejoicing
(D) Jubilation

Q380.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
She is a very creative artist and one can see that in her paintings.
(A) Likeable
(B) Good
(C) Innovative
(D) Pedantic

Q381.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Rohit did not slap Kunal.
(A) Kunal was not slapped by Rohit.
(B) Kunal had not been slapped by Rohit.
(C) Kunal was not being slapped by Rohit.
(D) Kunal has not been slapped by Rohit.

Q382.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To have bigger fish to fry
(A) To have bigger things to take care of than the menial task at hand
(B) To take calculated risks
(C) To know different kinds of fishing techniques
(D) To have an interest in cooking

Q383.
Select the correct spelling to fill in the blank.
When numerous ideas are presented in a historical context, more than mere ______
can be seen.
(A) parollelism
(B) paralialism
(C) paralelism
(D) parallelism

Q384.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word in the brackets to fill in the blank.
The ______ to the venue was decorated with beautiful lights. [exit]
(A) house
(B) entry
(C) road
(D) ceremony

Q385.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
They secret / decided / to leave / the town.
(A) the town
(B) to leave
(C) decided
(D) They secret

Q386.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word in the brackets to fill in the blank.
She ________ the target by an inch and lost the gold medal. [hit]
(A) cleaned
(B) missed
(C) bashed
(D) touched

Q387.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
She is proficient in speaking many languages.
(A) Heterolinguistic
(B) Bilingual
(C) Multilingual
(D) Monolithic

Q388.
Select the option that can substitute/replace the bracketed word correctly and
complete the sentence.
They could (always) stay in, or go for a walk.
(A) either
(B) not only
(C) had better
(D) neither

Q389.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence.
When I saw him, I will ask him to return the book he borrowed.
(A) see him
(B) had seen him
(C) shall see him
(D) have seen him

Q390.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Easy does it
(A) Used to tell someone to do something horridly
(B) Used to tell someone to do something violently
(C) Used to tell someone to do something rarely
(D) Used to tell someone to do something slowly and carefully

Q391.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
It rain a lot in this part of the country.
(A) of the country
(B) a lot
(C) It rain
(D) in this part

Q392.
Select the most appropriate verb / verb phrase to fill in the blank.
Akshaya ______________ hard for the entrance exam and received a high score.
(A) studies
(B) has studied
(C) studied
(D) was studied

Q393.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
He was / bad injured / in the / last match.
(A) He was
(B) bad injured
(C) in the
(D) last match.

Q394.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the idiom in the given brackets.
His PhD degree seems to be (Penelope’s web).
(A) An endless task
(B) A difficult task
(C) An important task
(D) A secret task

Q395.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
His house is smaller than you .
(A) is smaller than your
(B) is smaller than yours
(C) is small as you
(D) is small than you

Q396.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Speaking disrespectfully about sacred or religious things.
(A) Mystic
(B) Atheist
(C) Blasphemy
(D) Theist

Q397.
Select the correctly spelt word to fill in the blank.
My grandmother ________________ the preparation of every festival celebration in my
house.
(A) inetiates
(B) initiates
(C) enitiates
(D) enetiates

Q398.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
An instrument for viewing distant objects in space.
(A) Telescope
(B) Spectrograph
(C) Microscope
(D) Binoculars

Q399.
Select the correct spelling of the underlined word in the sentence.
Can you please come back to reality from the fectitious world you live in?
(A) factional
(B) fractional
(C) fictitious
(D) factitious

Q400.
Select the most appropriate verb / verb phrase to fill in the blank.
The team ________________ the championship before their star player got injured.
(A) has won
(B) was won
(C) win
(D) had won

Q401.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who is trained to travel in a spacecraft.
(A) Astronaut
(B) Alchemist
(C) Anthropologist
(D) Curator

Q402.
Select the option that can substitute/replace the bracketed word correctly and
complete the sentence.
If he runs, he (get) there in time.
(A) got there in time
(B) will get
(C) is getting
(D) has to get

Q403.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
The betrayer of the country was at last unmasked.
(A) theist
(B) traitor
(C) truant
(D) transgressor

Q404.
Select the most appropriate synonym for the underlined word in the given sentence.
His ambition in life is to become a happy and satisfied man.
(A) Eagerness
(B) Amend
(C) Satisfaction
(D) Apathy

Q405.
Select the option that can substitute/replace the bracketed word correctly and
complete the sentence.
He (seek) for the wallet in his pocket.
(A) Are seeking
(B) Sought
(C) Seeking
(D) Had seeking

Q406.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who looks at the bright side of things/situations
(A) Optimist
(B) Saint
(C) Scientist
(D) Pessimist

Q407.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Morbid compulsion to consume alcohol continuously
(A) Maniac
(B) Dipsomania
(C) Kleptomania
(D) Satyromania

Q408.
Select the correctly spelt word to fill in the blank.
The transistors are used as the main _________, which are built into computer chips.
(A) cumponents
(B) components
(C) kamponents
(D) kumponents

Q409.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word to fill in the blank.
Capricious
Share market prices have remained __________ for weeks.
(A) fickle
(B) stable
(C) volatile
(D) mischievous

Q410.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word in the brackets to fill in the blank.
The pool was too ______ at this end for kids to play. [SHALLOW]
(A) green
(B) cold
(C) blue
(D) deep

Q411.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
If you want to be a good detective, it helps to have an inquisitive nature.
(A) Comprehensive
(B) Itemised
(C) Intrusive
(D) Disinterested

Q412.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
By whom was grammar taught to you?
(A) You were taught grammar by whom?
(B) Who taught you grammar?
(C) Who had taught you grammar?
(D) Did he teach you grammar?

Q413.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Hit the nail on the head
(A) They hit a nail with a hammer.
(B) They are experiencing a headache.
(C) They're uncertain about a decision.
(D) They have accurately identified or explained something.

Q414.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
The meal was not prepared by us.
(A) We did not preparing the meal.
(B) We did prepare the meal.
(C) We did not prepare the meal.
(D) We had not prepare the meal.

Q415.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
He must deliver pizza.
(A) Pizza can be delivered by him.
(B) Pizza must be delivered by him.
(C) Pizza has to be delivered by him.
(D) Pizza have to be delivered by him.

Q416.
Select the sentence that contains a spelling error.
(A) The host institution must provide the delegates with accomodation at a subsidised rate.
(B) Rail lines go parallel.
(C) The boss addressed the meeting.
(D) The occurrence of the lunar eclipse is often a mystery for children.

Q417.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word in brackets to fill in the blanks.
The soldiers spent long period ________ (convalescing).
(A) travelling
(B) attacking
(C) ailing
(D) recovering

Q418.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Break a leg
(A) Give advice on maintaining physical health.
(B) Wish someone good luck before a performance.
(C) Suggest taking a short break during work.
(D) Encourage someone to engage in risky activities.

Q419.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
An order of law requiring people to remain indoors
(A) Curfew
(B) Check in
(C) Restriction
(D) Limit

Q420.
Select the most appropriate synonym to replace the underlined word in the given
sentence.
How did we end up in this rapturous situation?
(A) ecstatic
(B) terrifying
(C) misleading
(D) disastrous

Q421.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
A computer can’t function without it’s mother board.
(A) its
(B) it is
(C) their
(D) his

Q422.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following
sentence.
I do not have any access to the information in this matter.
(A) Clue
(B) Reach
(C) Doubt
(D) Denial

Q423.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the
given sentence.
Verity is a good virtue for human life.
(A) Truth
(B) Information
(C) Knowledge
(D) Cooperation

Q424.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
She was elated about her promotion, but her colleague felt quite disheartened.
(A) proud
(B) delighted
(C) cheerful
(D) discouraged

Q425.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who tends to look at the dark side of things
(A) Pessimist
(B) Polemist
(C) Dynamist
(D) Optimist

Q426.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
The homework must be done by you.
(A) You will do the homework.
(B) You should have done the homework.
(C) You must do the homework.
(D) You do the homework.

Q427.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
Foul smell will come if the food is not fresh.
(A) brittle
(B) crisp
(C) odourless
(D) stale

Q428.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The statistical study of human populations.
(A) Photography
(B) Astronomy
(C) Demography
(D) Palaeography

Q429.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Dealing with things in a practical and sensible way
(A) Stoic
(B) Sceptic
(C) Pragmatic
(D) Cynic

Q430.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the sentence given
below.
I refuse to let anything come in the way of my dreams.
(A) permit
(B) repress
(C) accord
(D) balk

Q431.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A short stay that you make while on a longer journey
(A) Tent
(B) Refugee
(C) Stopover
(D) Saga

Q432.
Identify the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Lady Stranleigh continued to smile at him brilliantly.
(A) Brightly
(B) Dimly
(C) Cunningly
(D) Strangely

Q433.
Select the most appropriate phrasal verb to fill in the blank.
We need to __________ a solution to this problem before it gets worse.
(A) cut down on
(B) break down
(C) come up with
(D) break up

Q434.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word in the brackets to fill in the blank.
The chef requires ______ vegetables for the salad. [stale]
(A) green
(B) cut
(C) leafy
(D) fresh

Q435.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
Educational technology has become a necesity if one desires excellent output.
(A) Educational
(B) technology
(C) excellent
(D) necesity

Q436.
Select the correctly spelt word to fill in the blank.
Helium is used with oxygen for asthma treatment because it ____________ very easily.
(A) difusez
(B) difuses
(C) diffuses
(D) diffuzes

Q437.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who sells and arranges cut flowers.
(A) Horticulturist
(B) Botanist
(C) Florist
(D) Gardener

Q438.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The list of subjects to be discussed at a meeting
(A) Agenda
(B) Menu
(C) Minutes
(D) Objectives

Q439.
Select the correctly spelt word to fill in the blank.
My mother said that every relationship must have some amount of ___________.
(A) flexebelity
(B) flexibility
(C) phlexibility
(D) flaxibilety

Q440.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Their sporting achievements at the highest level are being utterly ignored.
(A) Minimally
(B) Correctly
(C) Totally
(D) Extremely

Q441.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Gourav was no good than a foolish person.
(A) no best
(B) not good
(C) no better
(D) not best

Q442.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Don’t let Dylan fool you!
(A) Do not ever be fooled by Dylan.
(B) Do not be fool by Dylan.
(C) Do not be fooled by Dylan.
(D) Do not have been fooled by Dylan.

Q443.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who performs magic to entertain people
(A) Angel
(B) Magician
(C) Palmist
(D) Alchemist

Q444.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
One must be very strong to lift this box of glass jars.
(A) Mighty
(B) Weak
(C) Complicated
(D) Rugged

Q445.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined word segment in the
given sentence.
The wedding was put on until January.
(A) put in
(B) put up
(C) put off
(D) put down

Q446.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
Sejal visits the nearby temple off and on.
(A) Periodically
(B) Constantly
(C) Regularly
(D) Continuously

Q447.
Choose the most appropriate ANTONYM for the underlined word in the given
sentence.
The war was followed by a long period of prosperity.
(A) Affluence
(B) Security
(C) Secure
(D) Failure

Q448.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given phrase.
A short interesting story about a real person or event
(A) Anecdote
(B) Sketch
(C) Poem
(D) Narrative

Q449.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who likes to argue about anything
(A) Veracious
(B) Reticent
(C) Contentious
(D) Coward

Q450.
Select the correct spelling to fill in the blank.
Subir’s long absence is likely to have _____ for employees in the office.
(A) reperrcussions
(B) rapercussions
(C) repercussions
(D) repercusions

Q451.
Select the sentence that has a grammatical error.
(A) Indian force are known for their loyalty and integrity.
(B) It is said that Joseph was not ready to go to war.
(C) It is impossible to wake Christine up in the morning.
(D) Karl Marx was a renowned social scientist.

Q452.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who has supreme power or authority
(A) Foreign
(B) Secular
(C) Diversity
(D) Sovereign

Q453.
Select the most appropriate synonym to replace the underlined word in the given
sentence.
No altruistic act is truly sincere.
(A) phenomenal
(B) phonotypical
(C) philanthropic
(D) phantasmal

Q454.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who eats the flesh of his own species
(A) Vegan
(B) Non-vegetarian
(C) Mammal
(D) Cannibal

Q455.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word in bold.
We’d better watch our step and not give him any excuse to harass us further.
(A) betray
(B) intimidate
(C) relish
(D) soothe

Q456.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bold word in the following sentence.
He tried to alleviate the sufferings of his neighbours.
(A) Swell
(B) Add
(C) Relieve
(D) Intensify

Q457.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
To __________ the ticket, Amith had to visit the travel agency many times.
(A) contract
(B) confirm
(C) conform
(D) convention

Q458.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who does not show response to good or bad
(A) Cynic
(B) Phobic
(C) Sceptic
(D) Stoic

Q459.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A thing that can be easily carried by hands
(A) Import
(B) Portable
(C) Potable
(D) Export

Q460.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
Our university is affiliated with various institutes all over the world.
(A) disparate
(B) unalike
(C) diverse
(D) allied

Q461.
Select the correctly spelt word to fill in the blank.
All the chefs in the world are famous because of their _____________ skills.
(A) colinary
(B) kolinary
(C) kulinary
(D) culinary

Q462.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
If someone babbles, it means that they talk in a confused or excited way.
(A) Rants
(B) Talkative
(C) Quiet
(D) Gossips

Q463.
Select the correct spelling to fill in the blank.
The thought of eating half-cooked food under compulsion fills me with _____.
(A) repugnance
(B) ripugnance
(C) repugnence
(D) repegnance

Q464.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The mother couldn’t _________ such an insult from her son in front of the others.
(A) bier
(B) bear
(C) beer
(D) bare

Q465.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word in brackets to fill in the blank.
She has _______ (witty) remarks about everything.
(A) whimsical
(B) unamusing
(C) woeful
(D) sorry

Q466.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
My uncle lives in New York, so I only see him once in a blue moon.
(A) Monthly
(B) Weekly
(C) Very often
(D) Not very often

Q467.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
This library building is very high and has 25 floors.
(A) Hale
(B) Low
(C) Sturdy
(D) Elevated

Q468.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined word in the given
sentence.
Mayra has the ability for mathematics.
(A) astute
(B) aptitude
(C) attitude
(D) altitude

Q469.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word in bold to fill in the blank.
The modern work is deliberately ________ (ambiguous).
(A) certain
(B) dubious
(C) vague
(D) puzzling

Q470.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
I was completely mesmerised by the performance.
(A) Bored
(B) Irritated
(C) Annoyed
(D) Fascinated

Q471.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Start from scratch
(A) To start or create something from the very beginning
(B) To point out something wrong
(C) To address an issue
(D) To develop something out of waste material

Q472.
Identity the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following
sentence.
I love the stunning view of the mountain.
(A) Superfluous
(B) Smashing
(C) Toxic
(D) Mundane

Q473.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Lack of interest, enthusiasm or concern
(A) Apathy
(B) Antipathy
(C) Sympathy
(D) Empathy

Q474.
Identify the error in the given sentence.
Camels tend to move slowly than other domestic animals in the plains.
(A) domestic animals in the plains.
(B) move slowly
(C) Camels tend to
(D) than other

Q475.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Money collected from people for a cause.
(A) Deposit
(B) Fund
(C) Collection
(D) Savings

Q476.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Failing to give proper care and attention
(A) Wild
(B) Cautious
(C) Provident
(D) Lax

Q477.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The patient was suffering from a chronic disease.
(A) Mild
(B) Usual
(C) Universal
(D) Common

Q478.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Let the dust settle
(A) To make a space tidy
(B) To wait for a situation to become clear or certain
(C) Wait for the other person to make a move
(D) To make use of a situation

Q479.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Success is not a destination, it’s a journey.
(A) Failure
(B) Sensation
(C) Victory
(D) Opulence

Q480.
Select the option that can substitute/replace the bracketed word correctly and
complete the sentence.
I said I (don’t) understand.
(A) done
(B) am doing
(C) didn’t
(D) doesn’t

Q481.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word in bold.
Elisabeth stood at the piano, which did nothing to allay his anxiety.
(A) aggravate
(B) mitigate
(C) simplify
(D) mollify

Q482.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the given group of words.
A time when money might unexpectedly be needed
(A) A rash of something
(B) A raw deal
(C) A rap over the knuckles
(D) A rainy day

Q483.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
That which is no longer in existence
(A) Vanished
(B) Removed
(C) Destroyed
(D) Extinct

Q484.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
Economics began with growth and removel of poverty as its grand theme.
(A) Poverty
(B) Removel
(C) Grand
(D) Economics

Q485.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word in the brackets to fill in the blank.
Akash went to ______ his school uniform. [sell]
(A) make
(B) rent
(C) loan
(D) buy

Q486.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who does not believe in God
(A) Atheist
(B) Amateur
(C) Anarchy
(D) Autocrat

Q487.
Select the most appropriate synonym for the underlined word in the given sentence.
It was his decency that he employed him.
(A) Deception
(B) Courtesy
(C) Rudeness
(D) Perversion

Q488.
Select the most appropriate homophone to fill in the blank.
The ____________ was decorated with candles and chocolates everywhere.
(A) flor
(B) floor
(C) flour
(D) flower

Q489.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
We should plan our actions judiciously before going to war.
(A) Irrelevant
(B) Irreverent
(C) Irritatingly
(D) Irrational

Q490.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Much more than usual or expected
(A) Subordinate
(B) Ordinate
(C) Exceeding
(D) Mordancy

Q491.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
This is a clear example of conflict of egos.
(A) mingling
(B) infliction
(C) clash
(D) crash

Q492.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A performer’s first public appearance
(A) Foundation
(B) Premise
(C) Dawn
(D) Debut

Q493.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The group of travellers were wonderstruck by the ___________ of the coin.
(A) white
(B) wait
(C) weight
(D) wide

Q494.
Select the word with the correct spelling to fill in the blank.
Hiren loves to use ________ words while writing anything.
(A) colloquial
(B) colloqual
(C) colloquil
(D) coloquial

Q495.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
He was the most honest and good-hearted man that she had ever met.
(A) Deceptive
(B) Sincere
(C) Fake
(D) Biased

Q496.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
That which cannot be conquered
(A) Ineffable
(B) Indelible
(C) Invisible
(D) Invincible

Q497.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
Fundamentels of every subject need to be learnt on priority basis.
(A) basis
(B) learnt
(C) priority
(D) Fundamentels

Q498.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A government by the officials
(A) Monarchy
(B) Autocracy
(C) Bureaucracy
(D) Plutocracy

Q499.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blanks.
He had ________ the ________ into smaller clips.
(A) clipping, clips
(B) clips, clipping
(C) clipped, clipping
(D) clipping, clipped

Q500.
Select the most appropriate synonym for the underlined word in the given sentence.
One of Ram’s leisure activities is tennis.
(A) Languish
(B) Main
(C) Recreation
(D) Lead

Q501.
Select the correct spelling to fill in the blank.
Definitions of _________ are subjective to various interpretations.
(A) soverenty
(B) sovereignty
(C) sovereinity
(D) suvereignty

Q502.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
A bad patch
(A) A path that is untravelled
(B) A dangerous road to walk on
(C) A person who takes a difficult path
(D) A period of time when a person faces lots of troubles

Q503.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who speaks less in a forum.
(A) Eccentric
(B) Loquacious
(C) Gabby
(D) Reticent

Q504.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A place where fruit trees are grown
(A) Garden
(B) Museum
(C) Quay
(D) Orchard

Q505.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To read between the lines
(A) To read aloud to public
(B) To read differently
(C) To understand more than what the words suggest
(D) To underline some words

Q506.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word in brackets to fill in the blank.
Sheila ________ (failed) all her classes.
(A) fizzled
(B) flopped
(C) flunked
(D) passed

Q507.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word in the brackets to fill in the blank.
Dhara _______ the way to Mumbai. [lost]
(A) paved
(B) helped
(C) slept
(D) found

Q508.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
By whom were you injured?
(A) Who had injured you?
(B) Who had been injuring you?
(C) Who has injured you?
(D) Who injured you?

Q509.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Fear of closed spaces
(A) Photophobia
(B) Claustrophobia
(C) Agoraphobia
(D) Optophobia

Q510.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the following sentence.
You need to be concious enough to listen to the question.
(A) concious
(B) enough
(C) question
(D) listen

Q511.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Coffee was too hot; it burnt my tongue.
(A) Balmy
(B) Scorching
(C) Frigid
(D) Subtle

Q512.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Awkward in movement or manner
(A) Clownish
(B) Alert
(C) Imbalanced
(D) Clumsy

Q513.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined word.
At times, David behaves in a very obdurate manner to kids.
(A) envious
(B) obstinate
(C) amiable
(D) trusting

Q514.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who eats human flesh.
(A) Scavengers
(B) Omnivores
(C) Cannibal
(D) Herbivores

Q515.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Having unlimited power
(A) Omnipotent
(B) Omnivorous
(C) Omnipresence
(D) Omniscient

Q516.
Select the word which means the same as the group of words given.
Essence or main point of any passage, lecture or book
(A) Meaning
(B) Gist
(C) Significance
(D) Heart

Q517.
Select the most appropriate homophone to fill in the blank.
Ruby gave her mother a hug and offered to knead the ________.
(A) flora
(B) floor
(C) flour
(D) flavour

Q518.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word from the given sentence .
She recieved an award for her outstanding performance.
(A) outstanding
(B) award
(C) recieved
(D) performance

Q519.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Study of flying airplanes
(A) Astronomy
(B) Alchemy
(C) Aviation
(D) Acoustics

Q520.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
I would love to organise the farewell party at my house.
(A) Arrange
(B) Derange
(C) Disorder
(D) Confuse

Q521.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The study of coins
(A) Choreography
(B) Numismatics
(C) Cartography
(D) Informatics

Q522.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
An utter state of confusion
(A) Chaos
(B) Pathos
(C) Innuendos
(D) Engross

Q523.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word in bold.
Many people fought to abolish slavery during the Civil War.
(A) damage
(B) terminate
(C) kill
(D) establish

Q524.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Fear of snakes
(A) Claustrophobia
(B) Ophidiophobia
(C) Xenophobia
(D) Syngenesophobia

Q525.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given phrase.
Incapable of being defeated
(A) Invisible
(B) Unavoidable
(C) Invincible
(D) Ineluctable

Q526.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Cannot be corrected
(A) Incorrigible
(B) Illegible
(C) Incredible
(D) Ineligible

Q527.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined word.
Solomon’s reputation as an accountant is taintless .
(A) dubious
(B) inconsistent
(C) faultless
(D) flawed

Q528.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A place where birds are kept
(A) Zoo
(B) Aviary
(C) Sanctuary
(D) Hive

Q529.
Select the word which means the same as the group of words given.
Choice between two unsatisfactory alternatives
(A) Problem
(B) Dilemma
(C) Confusion
(D) Difficulty

Q530.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words
Anything pertaining to cats
(A) Feline
(B) Canine
(C) Bovine
(D) Taurine

Q531.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Loud enough to be heard.
(A) Audit
(B) Audacity
(C) Audacious
(D) Audible

Q532.
Select the most appropriate homophone to fill in the blank.
The _____ of the flowers spread everywhere when they bloom.
(A) cent
(B) sent
(C) scent
(D) saint

Q533.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word-substitute for the given group of
words.
A false idea or belief
(A) Entropy
(B) Fallacy
(C) Reticence
(D) Atrophy

Q534.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A place to park aeroplanes
(A) Hanger
(B) Shed
(C) Hangar
(D) Depot

Q535.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word in bold.
His mother never held a grudge against his father.
(A) benevolence
(B) malevolence
(C) rancour
(D) revulsion

Q536.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
I was happy to know that Sheila passed her final exams.
(A) upbeat
(B) Sad
(C) Excited
(D) Joyful

Q537.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Her remarks were relevant to the discussion.
(A) Suitable
(B) Inappropriate
(C) Conclusive
(D) Introductory

Q538.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A period of ten years
(A) Biennium
(B) Decade
(C) lustrum
(D) Century

Q539.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A thing fit to eat.
(A) Unpalatable
(B) Edible
(C) Uneatable
(D) Toxic

Q540.
Select the sentence that is expressed in passive voice.
(A) Children are participating in sand-art competition.
(B) I prefer tea to coffee.
(C) She sketches beautifully.
(D) The consignment was delivered yesterday.

Q541.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Layla is the Sultan’s consort.
(A) Alcoholic
(B) Foe
(C) Partner
(D) Enemy

Q542.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
An elephant is a large mammal.
(A) Bumper
(B) Gigantic
(C) Tiny
(D) Heroic

Q543.
Select the most appropriate homophone to fill in the blank.
He ________ his bike as fast as he could to reach home.
(A) rote
(B) rowed
(C) rode
(D) road

Q544.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The US ________ building was built in the year 1800.
(A) captain
(B) capitol
(C) capital
(D) cannibal

Q545.
Identify from the given options the word which is similar in meaning to the following
word.
Munificent
(A) Miserly
(B) Malicious
(C) Underappreciated
(D) Magnanimous

Q546.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given group of words.
A bitter pill
(A) Talking nonsense
(B) Getting furious easily
(C) Facing a distressing situation
(D) Arguing unnecessarily

Q547.
Select the correctly spelled sentence.
(A) The athlete's acheivements are impressive.
(B) The athlete’s achievements are impressive.
(C) The athletees achievements are impressive.
(D) The athlete’s achievements are imprressive.

Q548.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who eats a lot
(A) Chef
(B) Steward
(C) Chauffeur
(D) Glutton

Q549.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
He was very cruel in dealing with the students.
(A) Skittish
(B) Malevolent
(C) Kind
(D) Kingly

Q550.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Evenings get dark very early in this cold weather.
(A) Bright
(B) Dim
(C) Shadowy
(D) Gloomy

Q551.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
She was overstrung before her dance performance.
(A) Placid
(B) Calm
(C) Cheerful
(D) Nervous

Q552.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word in bold.
The choice was judicious as further events proved.
(A) hasty
(B) ridiculous
(C) prudent
(D) silly

Q553.
Select the word which means the same as the group of words given.
A written statement made under oath
(A) Statement
(B) Testimony
(C) Affirmation
(D) Affidavit

Q554.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word from the given sentence .
The resturant offers a wide variety of dishes.
(A) dishes
(B) variety
(C) resturant
(D) offers

Q555.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the following sentence.
Parul is known as a rigteous and honest lady.
(A) lady
(B) honest
(C) rigteous
(D) known

Q556.
Identify from the given options the word which is similar in meaning to the following
word.
Equivocal
(A) Ambiguous
(B) Balanced
(C) Clear
(D) Representative

Q557.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Jump the gun
(A) To start all over again
(B) To stop a process
(C) Using a gun for sports
(D) To do something too soon and too quickly

Q558.
Select the correct spelling to fill in the blank.
I often fail to ______ remember someone’s name.
(A) acusatively
(B) accurately
(C) accuratially
(D) accuriately

Q559.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
It takes time to adapt to a new environment.
(A) Apply
(B) Adjust
(C) Understand
(D) Control

Q560.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Vinod had a ________ escape in the car accident.
(A) comfortable
(B) full
(C) narrow
(D) wide

Q561.
Select the correctly spelled sentence.
(A) I will definitely attend the conference.
(B) I will definetely attend the conference.
(C) I will definately attend the conference.
(D) I will definitly attend the conference.

Q562.
By applying which of the following criteria can two triangles NOT be proved
congruent?
(A) side-side-side
(B) angle-angle-angle
(C) side-angle-side
(D) angle-side-angle

Q563.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given group of words.
On cloud nine
(A) Being very delighted
(B) Flying in the sky
(C) Being angry with someone
(D) Being very high

Q564.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given word.
Illiterate
(A) A person who cannot read and write
(B) A person who cannot speak
(C) One who is well-educated
(D) Highly rated thing

Q565.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
Many people love to visit enchanting hills.
(A) risky
(B) alluring
(C) echoing
(D) cool

Q566.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The homophone for the word ‘there’ is _________.
(A) those
(B) their
(C) that
(D) clear

Q567.
Select the correctly spelled sentence.
(A) The resteraunt serves delicious meals.
(B) The resturant serves deliscious meals.
(C) The restaurant serves delicious meals.
(D) The resturaunt serves delisious meals.

Q568.
Select the most appropriate homophone to fill in the blank.
He has the ________ to express his thoughts.
(A) write
(B) ride
(C) rite
(D) right

Q569.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Cut corners
(A) Do something in an inexpensive and easy way
(B) Complete a work
(C) Clear a space
(D) Find a suitable place

Q570.
Select the word which means the same as the group of words given.
Unit of weight for precious stones
(A) Pure
(B) Accurate
(C) Reliable
(D) Carat

Q571.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Creature of habit
(A) One who does same thing in the same way
(B) A mean person
(C) A faithful dog
(D) A bad habit

Q572.
Select the most appropriate homophone to fill in the blank.
The ointment will help to _____ the wound.
(A) kneel
(B) he’ll
(C) heal
(D) heel

Q573.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
At a low ebb
(A) In a critical moment
(B) In a happy state
(C) In an unemployed mode
(D) In a depressed or weak state

Q574.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Left out in the cold
(A) To be in hiding
(B) To be ignored
(C) To go underground
(D) To be extremely negative

Q575.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Care a hang
(A) Caring too much
(B) Hanging clothes to dry
(C) Showing no interest
(D) Putting an outfit on a hanger

Q576.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Just bite the ______ and tell him the truth.
(A) shot
(B) gun
(C) dust
(D) bullet

Q577.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
I like bread made up of corn __________.
(A) failure
(B) floor
(C) flour
(D) flower

Q578.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
A dime a dozen
(A) Something common and not special
(B) Very wealthy
(C) Variety of amenities
(D) A fair trade

Q579.
Identify from the given options the word which is similar in meaning to the following
word.
Morbid
(A) Grand
(B) Gloomy
(C) Bet
(D) Blithe

Q580.
Select the option that corrects the error in the given sentence.
He ran quick to catch the bus.
(A) insipid
(B) rapid
(C) quiet
(D) quickly

Q581.
Identify the error in the following sentence.
Brr, the city view from the Eiffel Tower is amazing!
(A) amazing
(B) view
(C) Brr
(D) from

Q582.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the following idiom.
To bring to light
(A) To disengage
(B) To engage in conversation
(C) To disclose
(D) To lighten

Q583.
Identify the error in the following sentence.
Ourselves should not boast of one’s knowledge.
(A) Ourselves
(B) knowledge
(C) boast
(D) one’s

Q584.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Hit the roof
(A) To destruct a building
(B) To play joyfully
(C) To jump high
(D) To become very angry

Q585.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
He was trembling with fear.
(A) Intrepid
(B) Weeping
(C) Running
(D) Shivering

Q586.
Select the word which means the same as the group of words given.
Capable of being done
(A) Suitable
(B) Feasible
(C) Useful
(D) Practical

Q587.
Identify the error in the given sentence.
My colleague always works latest than me.
(A) My colleague
(B) latest
(C) than me.
(D) always works

Q588.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word in bold.
The city has immense coal piers.
(A) diminutive
(B) trifling
(C) huge
(D) set

Q589.
Select the most appropriate homophone to fill in the blank.
The summer was ______ hot this year.
(A) to
(B) tow
(C) two
(D) too

Q590.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Nobody’s fool
(A) Not easily deceived
(B) The wisest person
(C) A complete fool
(D) All are fools

Q591.
What does the idiom ‘Bite the bullet’ mean?
(A) Enjoy a delicious meal
(B) Give someone a piece of advice
(C) Avoid confrontation
(D) Face a difficult situation with courage

Q592.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Turned a deaf ear to
(A) Rebuked
(B) Disregarded
(C) By any means
(D) At intervals

Q593.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) should not be restricted
(B) should be restricted
(C) should restricted
(D) restrict

Q594.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Ram went to _____ an ice cream.
(A) buy
(B) byre
(C) by
(D) bye

Q595.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Off and on
(A) Now and then
(B) Know something thoroughly
(C) Object to
(D) Remind

Q596.
Give one word substitution for :
A person who is unsure about God’s existence
(A) Agnostic
(B) Atheist
(C) Ignorant
(D) Theist

Q597.
Select the option that corrects the error in the given sentence.
She sings good.
(A) better
(B) goodly
(C) best
(D) well

Q598.
Which of the following idioms means ‘to steal from a shop’?
(A) Golden opportunity
(B) Five-finger discount
(C) Black sheep
(D) Green thumb

Q599.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Intelligible
(A) Incoherent
(B) Deliberate
(C) Scriptable
(D) Embezzle

Q600.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) conflictingly
(B) unpredictability
(C) consistently
(D) clumsily

Q601.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) comprehensive
(B) transgressive
(C) conclusive
(D) reprehensive

Q602.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Affirmative
(A) Accession
(B) Sanction
(C) Negative
(D) Acquiescence

Q603.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Autonomy
(A) Dependence
(B) Permanence
(C) Economical
(D) Independence

Q604.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) regardless
(B) notwithstanding
(C) nevertheless
(D) inasmuch

Q605.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given word.
Pugnacious
(A) Impatient
(B) Waspish
(C) Good-tempered
(D) Arrogant

Q606.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Triumphant
(A) Tender
(B) Unsuccessful
(C) Jubilant
(D) Flourishing

Q607.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Derogatory
(A) Delegation
(B) Insulting
(C) Salutary
(D) Derivative

Q608.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Reluctant
(A) Beautiful
(B) Desperate
(C) Obedient
(D) Enthusiastic

Q609.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) has hovered
(B) has adopted
(C) had recognised
(D) has shed

Q610.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) quantification
(B) introversion
(C) interrogation
(D) molestation

Q611.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) new birth
(B) demonetisation
(C) economic boom
(D) disease

Q612.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) according to
(B) similar to
(C) compared to
(D) combine to

Q613.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) vegetative
(B) haphazard
(C) commodious
(D) interpretative

Q614.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) calling for
(B) calling on
(C) calling at
(D) calling from

Q615.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Mechanical
(A) Yielding
(B) Automatised
(C) Manual
(D) Surrogate

Q616.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Catastrophe
(A) Success
(B) Nurture
(C) Immaculate
(D) Disaster

Q617.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Exceptional
(A) Emotional
(B) Trivial
(C) Outstanding
(D) Total

Q618.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Dogmatic
(A) Conservative
(B) Liberal
(C) Diplomatic
(D) Concerned

Q619.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Necessary
(A) Essential
(B) Spatial
(C) Existential
(D) Potential

Q620.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) stabilisation
(B) fixation
(C) stagnation
(D) alterations

Q621.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3
(A) marginalisation
(B) disapproval
(C) consequences
(D) foundations

Q622.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Monotonous
(A) Tiresome
(B) Tedious
(C) Engrossing
(D) Rational

Q623.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Synthetic
(A) Natural
(B) Processed
(C) Artificial
(D) Imitation

Q624.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Inevitable
(A) Confident
(B) Avoidable
(C) Clear
(D) Inexorable

Q625.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Appreciate
(A) Acknowledge
(B) Depreciate
(C) Depict
(D) Esteem

Q626.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Miraculous
(A) Expected
(B) Average
(C) Incredible
(D) Draining

Q627.
Select the correct spelling of the word that means ‘to replace’.
(A) Supersed
(B) Superseed
(C) Supersede
(D) Superceed

Q628.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Miserable
(A) Restrained
(B) Cheerful
(C) Settled
(D) Melodious

Q629.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Adversity
(A) Pleasure
(B) Misfortune
(C) Success
(D) Advantage

Q630.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Expertise
(A) Clumsiness
(B) Proficiency
(C) Lack
(D) Ignorance

Q631.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Barbarity
(A) Rivalry
(B) Callous
(C) Compassion
(D) Compromise

Q632.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Mellifluous
(A) Cacophonous
(B) Loud
(C) Musical
(D) Distinct

Q633.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) effortless
(B) effecting
(C) efficient
(D) efficiencies

Q634.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) transmit
(B) transmitted
(C) transmits
(D) transmitting

Q635.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Obstinate
(A) Submissive
(B) Stubborn
(C) Adaptive
(D) Obedient

PASSAGE: first by the loss of in-person therapy and then by masking requirements, in places that have them. SubQuestion No : 21
Q636.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) aligning
(B) encountering
(C) favouring
(D) countering

PASSAGE: first by the loss of in-person therapy and then by masking requirements, in places that have them. SubQuestion No : 21
Q637.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) an innate
(B) a reduction
(C) an uptrend
(D) an inflow

PASSAGE: first by the loss of in-person therapy and then by masking requirements, in places that have them. SubQuestion No : 21
Q638.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.(
(A) deficient
(B) ascend
(C) assumptions
(D) derivations

Q639.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Thankful
(A) Affirmation
(B) Ungrateful
(C) Obliged
(D) Obscure

Q640.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Determined
(A) hesitant
(B) loathe
(C) resolute
(D) faltering

Q641.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) schools
(B) terminologies
(C) characters
(D) functions

Q642.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Loving
(A) Offish
(B) Rejuvenate
(C) Affectionate
(D) Subordinate

Q643.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Laudable
(A) Humorous
(B) Deplorable
(C) Commendable
(D) Severe

Q644.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 3.
(A) have emerged
(B) had emerged
(C) has emerged
(D) was emerged

Q645.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) extinction
(B) renovation
(C) salvation
(D) redemption

Q646.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Paramount
(A) trivial
(B) collateral
(C) inferior
(D) supreme

Q647.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no.5
(A) elevation of
(B) rejection of
(C) president of
(D) exclusion of

Q648.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) infection
(B) condition
(C) supervision
(D) dimension

Q649.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) tucked away
(B) cleared up
(C) folded up
(D) hid away

Q650.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) depend from
(B) depend on
(C) depend at
(D) depend in

Q651.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) stagnating
(B) implicating
(C) impeding
(D) spreading

Q652.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Maverick
(A) Conformist
(B) Bohemian
(C) Orthodox
(D) Follower

Q653.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) brings up
(B) takes for
(C) calls for
(D) disposes of

Q654.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) Jeopardise
(B) Innocuous
(C) channelise
(D) safeguard

Q655.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Customary
(A) Protection
(B) Habitual
(C) Fashion
(D) Unusual

Q656.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) viability
(B) survival
(C) fatalities
(D) durability

Q657.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Adequate
(A) Hidden
(B) Sufficient
(C) Reconcile
(D) Evaluate

Q658.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Foment
(A) Separation
(B) Remoteness
(C) Proximity
(D) Regulate

Q659.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) Therefore
(B) Moreover
(C) However
(D) Nevertheless

Q660.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) Therefore
(B) However
(C) Nevertheless
(D) Moreover

Q661.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.(
(A) bitterest
(B) kindest
(C) strangest
(D) gloomiest

Q662.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) arrest
(B) interruption
(C) succession
(D) disorder

Q663.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) optional
(B) imperative
(C) resistant
(D) secondary

Q664.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Desolate
(A) Frugal
(B) Allusive
(C) Festive
(D) Melancholic

Q665.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) renovate
(B) associated
(C) flourished
(D) informed

Q666.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) interactive
(B) obnoxious
(C) pecuniary
(D) onerous

Q667.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) likely to
(B) barely to
(C) rarely to
(D) hardly to

Q668.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) Therefore
(B) Furthermore
(C) Moreover
(D) However

Q669.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Confiscate
(A) Titivate
(B) Restock
(C) Seize
(D) Destroy

Q670.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) abrupt
(B) deliberate
(C) expansive
(D) innovative

Q671.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Grotesque
(A) Shameful
(B) Comely
(C) Ugly
(D) Spontaneous

Q672.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) institutes
(B) organisations
(C) apathy
(D) tastes

Q673.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Pugnacious
(A) Sly
(B) Dogmatic
(C) Belligerent
(D) Ally

Q674.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Stationary
(A) Portable
(B) Swindle
(C) Still
(D) Motile

Q675.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1
(A) advantages
(B) intemperance
(C) handicap
(D) restrictions

Q676.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) forest-living
(B) life
(C) forest-lived
(D) alive

Q677.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Entire
(A) Ingress
(B) Incomplete
(C) Undivided
(D) Thorough

Q678.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Candid
(A) Tender
(B) Dishonest
(C) Irrelevant
(D) Guileless

Q679.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Tendency
(A) Distaste
(B) Proneness
(C) Decoy
(D) Aversion

Q680.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) reducing
(B) seeking
(C) neglecting
(D) declining

Q681.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Magnificent
(A) Sacred
(B) Scared
(C) Splendid
(D) Slow

Q682.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) revealed
(B) simulated
(C) catered
(D) suffocated

Q683.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) rendition
(B) glossary
(C) network
(D) resistance

Q684.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Material
(A) Cheap
(B) Temporary
(C) Abstract
(D) Concrete

Q685.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1
(A) indifferent
(B) apprehensive
(C) apologetic
(D) excellent

Q686.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Bombastic
(A) Elevated
(B) Simple
(C) Wicked
(D) Pastoral

Q687.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) that has
(B) that is
(C) which had
(D) which have

Q688.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Jovial
(A) Profane
(B) Solemnity
(C) Miserable
(D) Cheerful

Q689.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Attack
(A) Defence
(B) Ambush
(C) Engagement
(D) Production

PASSAGE: during sleep as the mind is absent and so is the physical world, the real happiness (5)______. It is said that deep sleep, where there is no feeling of body, mind and the world, is the natural state of human beings. SubQuestion No : 21
Q690.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) inessential
(B) disapproved
(C) ceaseless
(D) required

PASSAGE: during sleep as the mind is absent and so is the physical world, the real happiness (5)______. It is said that deep sleep, where there is no feeling of body, mind and the world, is the natural state of human beings. SubQuestion No : 21
Q691.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) wilderness
(B) cosmic
(C) rapidly
(D) fast-paced

Q692.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Dissipate
(A) Malicious
(B) Haste
(C) Glorious
(D) Spend

Q693.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Hostile
(A) Friendly
(B) Incoherent
(C) Doubtful
(D) Eager

Q694.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) restricted
(B) adjourned
(C) accused
(D) claimed

Q695.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) heirloom
(B) legacy
(C) futurities
(D) character

Q696.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) grassland
(B) biosphere
(C) landscape
(D) marine

Q697.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) abated
(B) moderated
(C) stabilised
(D) equated

Q698.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) including
(B) mixing
(C) gathering
(D) counting

Q699.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the following word.
Forbid
(A) Call
(B) Allow
(C) Prohibit
(D) Forsake

Q700.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.(
(A) personality
(B) style
(C) within
(D) exterior

Q701.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) hardly
(B) gradually
(C) recently
(D) initially

Q702.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Paralysed
(A) Demure
(B) Healthy
(C) Stifled
(D) Sultry

PASSAGE: one is about dismembering a body , I’d rather not get into it, but the (1) ________ pertinent one is about college. It’s the end of the semester, and I suddenly (2) ________ that there is a class I forgot to attend, ever, and now I have to sit for the final exam. I wake up panicked, my GPA in peril. How could I have done this? Why do I so (3) ________ dissatisfy myself? Then I remember I haven’t been in college in more than a decade. Someone with (4) ________ knowledge of my academic career might point out that this nightmare scenario is not that far removed from my actual collegiate experience, and that at certain times in my life, it did not take the magic of slumber to find me completely unprepared for a final. And, well, (5) ________ of what may or may not be true of my personal scholastic rigour, I suspect the school-stress dream is quite a common one. SubQuestion No : 21
Q703.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) reality
(B) unreal
(C) confused
(D) unimaginary

PASSAGE: one is about dismembering a body , I’d rather not get into it, but the (1) ________ pertinent one is about college. It’s the end of the semester, and I suddenly (2) ________ that there is a class I forgot to attend, ever, and now I have to sit for the final exam. I wake up panicked, my GPA in peril. How could I have done this? Why do I so (3) ________ dissatisfy myself? Then I remember I haven’t been in college in more than a decade. Someone with (4) ________ knowledge of my academic career might point out that this nightmare scenario is not that far removed from my actual collegiate experience, and that at certain times in my life, it did not take the magic of slumber to find me completely unprepared for a final. And, well, (5) ________ of what may or may not be true of my personal scholastic rigour, I suspect the school-stress dream is quite a common one. SubQuestion No : 21
Q704.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) prevented
(B) blocked
(C) triggered
(D) subdued

PASSAGE: one is about dismembering a body , I’d rather not get into it, but the (1) ________ pertinent one is about college. It’s the end of the semester, and I suddenly (2) ________ that there is a class I forgot to attend, ever, and now I have to sit for the final exam. I wake up panicked, my GPA in peril. How could I have done this? Why do I so (3) ________ dissatisfy myself? Then I remember I haven’t been in college in more than a decade. Someone with (4) ________ knowledge of my academic career might point out that this nightmare scenario is not that far removed from my actual collegiate experience, and that at certain times in my life, it did not take the magic of slumber to find me completely unprepared for a final. And, well, (5) ________ of what may or may not be true of my personal scholastic rigour, I suspect the school-stress dream is quite a common one. SubQuestion No : 21
Q705.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) adaptive
(B) affective
(C) adoptive
(D) minimum

PASSAGE: one is about dismembering a body , I’d rather not get into it, but the (1) ________ pertinent one is about college. It’s the end of the semester, and I suddenly (2) ________ that there is a class I forgot to attend, ever, and now I have to sit for the final exam. I wake up panicked, my GPA in peril. How could I have done this? Why do I so (3) ________ dissatisfy myself? Then I remember I haven’t been in college in more than a decade. Someone with (4) ________ knowledge of my academic career might point out that this nightmare scenario is not that far removed from my actual collegiate experience, and that at certain times in my life, it did not take the magic of slumber to find me completely unprepared for a final. And, well, (5) ________ of what may or may not be true of my personal scholastic rigour, I suspect the school-stress dream is quite a common one. SubQuestion No : 21
Q706.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) distraught
(B) dispassionate
(C) worried
(D) relieved

Q707.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Lethargic
(A) Active
(B) Angry
(C) Languid
(D) Moderate

Q708.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Cascade
(A) Criticise
(B) Arcade
(C) Waterfall
(D) Garden

Q709.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Innuendo
(A) Crude
(B) Prose
(C) Ragged
(D) Insinuation

Q710.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) Therefore
(B) Secondly
(C) Besides
(D) Despite

Q711.
Identify the most appropriate antonym of the given word.
Scary
(A) awful
(B) bright
(C) comforting
(D) Pristine

Q712.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) conflict
(B) rejection
(C) focus
(D) diversity

Q713.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Evaluate
(A) Assess
(B) Unity
(C) Misquote
(D) Misjudge

Q714.
Select the word OPPOSITE in meaning to the given word.
Deficient
(A) Terrible
(B) Ample
(C) Broken
(D) Skimpy

Q715.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.(
(A) sparkling
(B) ecstatic
(C) grumpy
(D) joyful

Q716.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Brittle
(A) Crunchy
(B) Resilient
(C) Delicate
(D) Aloof

Q717.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Repulse
(A) Substitute
(B) Recover
(C) Reprove
(D) Repel

Q718.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) horribly
(B) fairness
(C) badly
(D) dishonesty

Q719.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) relevant
(B) ill-gotten
(C) ill-will
(D) moral

Q720.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Forsake
(A) Abandon
(B) Accelerate
(C) Reveal
(D) Clutch

Q721.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Condone
(A) Pardon
(B) Penalty
(C) Solace
(D) Solicitude

Q722.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Garnish
(A) Dwindle
(B) Decorate
(C) Blemish
(D) Tarnish

PASSAGE: only in the past few weeks have students started to return to classrooms, and only about half of those eligible have opted to go back, for an (5) ________________ of two days a week. SubQuestion No : 21
Q723.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) However
(B) Since
(C) Although
(D) In spite of

PASSAGE: only in the past few weeks have students started to return to classrooms, and only about half of those eligible have opted to go back, for an (5) ________________ of two days a week. SubQuestion No : 21
Q724.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) increased
(B) epic
(C) historic
(D) monumental

PASSAGE: only in the past few weeks have students started to return to classrooms, and only about half of those eligible have opted to go back, for an (5) ________________ of two days a week. SubQuestion No : 21
Q725.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) to create
(B) create
(C) creating
(D) creation

Q726.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Nominal
(A) Nasty
(B) Significant
(C) Sound
(D) Constant

Q727.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) serious
(B) antagonist
(C) culture
(D) company

Q728.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) hinder
(B) repress
(C) restrain
(D) accelerate

Q729.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Abundant
(A) Ample
(B) Difficult
(C) Scarce
(D) Barren

Q730.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) yearly
(B) monthly
(C) half yearly
(D) weekly

Q731.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) normalised
(B) disrupted
(C) measured
(D) regulated

Q732.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) gained
(B) is gained
(C) was gained
(D) gains

Q733.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) depth
(B) magnitude
(C) corpse
(D) discipline

Q734.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) affects
(B) effects
(C) renounce
(D) practice

Q735.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) fancy
(B) suspicion
(C) affect
(D) impression

Q736.
Identify the correct antonym for the given word.
Envious
(A) Suspicious
(B) Generous
(C) Untrustworthy
(D) Malicious

Q737.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) inaccessible
(B) available
(C) futile
(D) nonviable

Q738.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) frivolous
(B) grave
(C) solemn
(D) thoughtful

Q739.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given word.
Edible
(A) noxious
(B) noisome
(C) mortal
(D) nutritive

Q740.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) suspend
(B) carry on
(C) resume
(D) reopened

Q741.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Meander
(A) Deputise
(B) Confirm
(C) Ramble
(D) Direct

Q742.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Acquiesce
(A) Thwart
(B) Cease
(C) Desist
(D) Concur

Q743.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) prone
(B) delectable
(C) quaint
(D) habitual

Q744.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Epitome
(A) Expansion
(B) Precise
(C) Exhort
(D) Lucid

Q745.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Celebrate
(A) Assure
(B) Rejoice
(C) Daunt
(D) Bitch

Q746.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Kilter
(A) Anarchy
(B) Shambles
(C) Order
(D) Disrepair

Q747.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Fallacy
(A) Veracity
(B) Error
(C) Evidence
(D) Verify

Q748.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) unpleasant
(B) agreeable
(C) amusing
(D) enjoyable

Q749.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Beseech
(A) Impart
(B) Implore
(C) Bequeath
(D) Pamper

Q750.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) equipment
(B) baggage
(C) outfit
(D) arsenal

Q751.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Cherish
(A) Neglect
(B) Afflict
(C) Nurture
(D) Breach

PASSAGE: The only (4) ________ option was a half-day program that would bus students to a day-care centre on the outskirts of the town for the afternoon. The district did offer a limited number of full-day slots, but those had all been claimed in a lottery earlier that spring and came with a tuition cost. “I was like, ‘Cost me? What? Public school costs money here?’” she told me. Many parents across the United States, like Cruz Banks, may assume that free, full-day kindergarten is a (5) ________ part of the country’s public education system. I was one of them, until my youngest had to enter our district’s lottery several months ago. When he was assigned to the half-day program, I swung between alarm and frustration. SubQuestion No : 21
Q752.
Select the most appropriate answer for blank number 2.
(A) including
(B) manifesting
(C) exaggerating
(D) segregating

PASSAGE: The only (4) ________ option was a half-day program that would bus students to a day-care centre on the outskirts of the town for the afternoon. The district did offer a limited number of full-day slots, but those had all been claimed in a lottery earlier that spring and came with a tuition cost. “I was like, ‘Cost me? What? Public school costs money here?’” she told me. Many parents across the United States, like Cruz Banks, may assume that free, full-day kindergarten is a (5) ________ part of the country’s public education system. I was one of them, until my youngest had to enter our district’s lottery several months ago. When he was assigned to the half-day program, I swung between alarm and frustration. SubQuestion No : 21
Q753.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3
(A) compare
(B) differentiate
(C) strangulate
(D) malign

PASSAGE: The only (4) ________ option was a half-day program that would bus students to a day-care centre on the outskirts of the town for the afternoon. The district did offer a limited number of full-day slots, but those had all been claimed in a lottery earlier that spring and came with a tuition cost. “I was like, ‘Cost me? What? Public school costs money here?’” she told me. Many parents across the United States, like Cruz Banks, may assume that free, full-day kindergarten is a (5) ________ part of the country’s public education system. I was one of them, until my youngest had to enter our district’s lottery several months ago. When he was assigned to the half-day program, I swung between alarm and frustration. SubQuestion No : 21
Q754.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) fabricate
(B) exclude
(C) incorporate
(D) stratify

PASSAGE: The only (4) ________ option was a half-day program that would bus students to a day-care centre on the outskirts of the town for the afternoon. The district did offer a limited number of full-day slots, but those had all been claimed in a lottery earlier that spring and came with a tuition cost. “I was like, ‘Cost me? What? Public school costs money here?’” she told me. Many parents across the United States, like Cruz Banks, may assume that free, full-day kindergarten is a (5) ________ part of the country’s public education system. I was one of them, until my youngest had to enter our district’s lottery several months ago. When he was assigned to the half-day program, I swung between alarm and frustration. SubQuestion No : 21
Q755.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) options
(B) aspects
(C) criteria
(D) display

PASSAGE: The only (4) ________ option was a half-day program that would bus students to a day-care centre on the outskirts of the town for the afternoon. The district did offer a limited number of full-day slots, but those had all been claimed in a lottery earlier that spring and came with a tuition cost. “I was like, ‘Cost me? What? Public school costs money here?’” she told me. Many parents across the United States, like Cruz Banks, may assume that free, full-day kindergarten is a (5) ________ part of the country’s public education system. I was one of them, until my youngest had to enter our district’s lottery several months ago. When he was assigned to the half-day program, I swung between alarm and frustration. SubQuestion No : 21
Q756.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) towards
(B) across
(C) beyond
(D) throughout

PASSAGE: The only (4) ________ option was a half-day program that would bus students to a day-care centre on the outskirts of the town for the afternoon. The district did offer a limited number of full-day slots, but those had all been claimed in a lottery earlier that spring and came with a tuition cost. “I was like, ‘Cost me? What? Public school costs money here?’” she told me. Many parents across the United States, like Cruz Banks, may assume that free, full-day kindergarten is a (5) ________ part of the country’s public education system. I was one of them, until my youngest had to enter our district’s lottery several months ago. When he was assigned to the half-day program, I swung between alarm and frustration. SubQuestion No : 21
Q757.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) condition
(B) place
(C) decorum
(D) scenario

Q758.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Astute
(A) Stupid
(B) Dispute
(C) Temporary
(D) Illegal

Q759.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) rescind
(B) foresee
(C) legalise
(D) affect

Q760.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Berserk
(A) Stubborn
(B) Demented
(C) Absurd
(D) Lazy

Q761.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) numerous
(B) fewer
(C) particular
(D) limit

Q762.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) epidemic
(B) local
(C) endemic
(D) pandemic

Q763.
Identity the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Secure
(A) Trundle
(B) Save
(C) Succeed
(D) Attack

Q764.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) angles
(B) methods
(C) problems
(D) aspects

Q765.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) onerous
(B) terminate
(C) salute
(D) berate

Q766.
Choose the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) uncomplicated
(B) uniform
(C) mixed
(D) intricate

Q767.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Forgive
(A) Requite
(B) Clear
(C) Unburden
(D) Loathe

Q768.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 4.
(A) seems to
(B) keeps to
(C) assess to
(D) access to

Q769.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2
(A) measures
(B) brandings
(C) models
(D) sluggishness

Q770.
Identify the correct synonym of the word given below.
FATIGUE
(A) Mission
(B) Obese
(C) Vigour
(D) Tiredness

Q771.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) vile
(B) unpunished
(C) waste
(D) punished

Q772.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Labour
(A) Relaxation
(B) Toil
(C) Dalliance
(D) Mesh

Q773.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) bleak
(B) instigate
(C) distant
(D) remote

Q774.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Absolve
(A) Appeal
(B) Accuse
(C) Excuse
(D) Commend

Q775.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Brittle
(A) Furtive
(B) Fatal
(C) Fragile
(D) Fickle

Q776.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2
(A) dissuaded
(B) suggested
(C) dispirited
(D) removed

Q777.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) although
(B) rather
(C) yet
(D) as well as

Q778.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) democracy
(B) election
(C) justice
(D) injustice

Q779.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) vicious
(B) feeble
(C) moderate
(D) gentle

Q780.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Risible
(A) Curious
(B) Giddy
(C) Serious
(D) Droll

Q781.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) transition
(B) end
(C) stagnation
(D) set

Q782.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.(
(A) glitters
(B) shows
(C) admits
(D) looks

Q783.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no.3
(A) marginalised
(B) censored
(C) elevated
(D) uplifted

Q784.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) prove
(B) approved
(C) proven
(D) proving

Q785.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) saying
(B) was said
(C) says
(D) tells by

Q786.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) particular
(B) several
(C) immense
(D) enormous

Q787.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 2.
(A) irregular
(B) routine
(C) different
(D) similar

Q788.
Identify the most appropriate antonym of the given word.
Timid
(A) Meek
(B) Daring
(C) Spooky
(D) Anxious

Q789.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) indistinct
(B) nebulous
(C) clearest
(D) vague

Q790.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Merit
(A) Fatigue
(B) Residue
(C) Virtue
(D) Oblique

Q791.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) incidents
(B) case
(C) power
(D) actions

Q792.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) deep
(B) depth
(C) superficial
(D) large

Q793.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) promise
(B) realise
(C) praise
(D) offer

Q794.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) fast
(B) irregular
(C) regard
(D) fixate

Q795.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1
(A) frisking
(B) ignoring
(C) skipping
(D) detailing

Q796.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3
(A) indebted
(B) excited
(C) provoked
(D) frustrated

Q797.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) plainest
(B) slowest
(C) longest
(D) strangest

Q798.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) average
(B) understanding
(C) ideal
(D) amount

Q799.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) number
(B) percent
(C) height
(D) amount

Q800.
Select the most appropriate answer for blank number 5.
(A) accompanied
(B) hypnotised
(C) neglected
(D) predicted

Q801.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Dissolve
(A) Appear
(B) Fade
(C) Solve
(D) Vanish

Q802.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Concede
(A) Avow
(B) Battle
(C) Deny
(D) Surrender

Q803.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) rowdy
(B) commoners
(C) saints
(D) knave

Q804.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Fatal
(A) Additional
(B) Easy
(C) Deadly
(D) Jovial

Q805.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) enough
(B) tough
(C) through
(D) though

Q806.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Hinder
(A) Facilitate
(B) Block
(C) Praise
(D) Joy

Q807.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) maximise
(B) mild
(C) intense
(D) minor

Q808.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Profuse
(A) Scarce
(B) Just
(C) Prompt
(D) Humble

Q809.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Insert
(A) Remove
(B) Select
(C) Inject
(D) Inform

Q810.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Toxic
(A) Lethal
(B) Licit
(C) Laudatory
(D) Lanky

PASSAGE: Bharat Natyam, Kathakali, Manipuri, Kathak .Bharat Natyam is the oldest and most popular dance-form of India. SubQuestion No : 21
Q811.
Select the most appropriate answer for blank number 1.%
(A) associate
(B) obligation
(C) initiative
(D) occult

PASSAGE: Bharat Natyam, Kathakali, Manipuri, Kathak .Bharat Natyam is the oldest and most popular dance-form of India. SubQuestion No : 21
Q812.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) supreme
(B) most
(C) more
(D) greatest

Q813.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Bully
(A) Oxen
(B) Coddle
(C) Plough
(D) Oppressor

Q814.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2
(A) pacified
(B) isolated
(C) committed
(D) sorted

Q815.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Evoke
(A) Induce
(B) Abandon
(C) Reduce
(D) Divert

Q816.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Carcass
(A) Scrap
(B) Corpse
(C) Prison
(D) Gale

Q817.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) breed
(B) species
(C) group
(D) human

Q818.
Select the most appropriate answer for blank number 5.%
(A) allocation
(B) breakdown
(C) countdown
(D) custom

Q819.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Receive
(A) Reward
(B) Admit
(C) Exile
(D) Fund

Q820.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) ascend
(B) blend
(C) legend
(D) amend

Q821.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Rectify
(A) mar
(B) amend
(C) corrupt
(D) upset

Q822.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) cross
(B) leaps
(C) hurdle
(D) spring

Q823.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) motion
(B) wave
(C) sign
(D) progress

Q824.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Purify
(A) Chant
(B) Invite
(C) Pollute
(D) Wash

Q825.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Dodge
(A) Force
(B) Boarding
(C) Avoid
(D) Amount

Q826.
Select the most appropriate answer for blank number 1.
(A) collect
(B) involvement
(C) assessment
(D) regiment

Q827.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) reason
(B) river
(C) reign
(D) region

Q828.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 1.
(A) seems to
(B) done to
(C) did to
(D) does to

Q829.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) they’re
(B) their
(C) there
(D) them

Q830.
Select the most appropriate answer for blank number 2.%
(A) refused
(B) dedicated
(C) withhold
(D) alienated

Q831.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) stuck
(B) dusted
(C) pursed
(D) dirt

Q832.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) adept
(B) replace
(C) adopt
(D) swap

Q833.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) beyond
(B) with
(C) along
(D) behind

Q834.
Choose the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) difficult
(B) easy
(C) irksome
(D) serious

Q835.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) summary
(B) gaze
(C) record
(D) loss

Q836.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) cannot
(B) may not be
(C) should
(D) shall

Q837.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Coy
(A) Recent
(B) Extroverted
(C) Uptight
(D) Shy

Q838.
Select the most appropriate answer for blank number 3.%
(A) concludes
(B) possess
(C) clarifies
(D) obtains

Q839.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) more
(B) better
(C) best
(D) strong

Q840.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) never
(B) don’t
(C) frequently
(D) seldom

Q841.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) within
(B) about
(C) around
(D) to

Q842.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) field
(B) zone
(C) market
(D) area

Q843.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) Sooner
(B) When
(C) For
(D) Unless

Q844.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) skate
(B) skim
(C) glide
(D) wheel

Q845.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) have
(B) have been
(C) had
(D) has

Q846.
Choose the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) form
(B) design
(C) format
(D) substance

Q847.
Select the most appropriate answer for blank number 4.
(A) levitated
(B) measured
(C) escaped
(D) triggered

Q848.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) take
(B) watch
(C) keep
(D) honour

Q849.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) neutral
(B) alien
(C) foreign
(D) common

Q850.
Choose the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) catalyse
(B) yield
(C) bring
(D) effect

Q851.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Taut
(A) Torn
(B) Slack
(C) Tight
(D) Flaccid

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q852.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) whom
(B) whose
(C) who
(D) which

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q853.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no.4
(A) abundance
(B) river
(C) poverty
(D) forest

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q854.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) does
(B) have
(C) put
(D) create

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q855.
Select the most appropriate answer for blank number 3.
(A) contents
(B) indices
(C) glimpses
(D) features

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q856.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 5.
(A) minor
(B) foremost
(C) almost
(D) most

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q857.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) which
(B) that
(C) when
(D) who

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q858.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) have
(B) has
(C) having
(D) had

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q859.
Select the most appropriate answer for blank number 4.%
(A) vision
(B) design
(C) control
(D) graphics

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q860.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no.2
(A) therefore
(B) through
(C) among
(D) onto

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q861.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) aid
(B) fun
(C) guard
(D) prey

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q862.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) her
(B) its
(C) one’s
(D) one

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q863.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) can
(B) were
(C) that
(D) have been

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q864.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) by
(B) in
(C) across
(D) at

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q865.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) were
(B) are
(C) is
(D) was

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q866.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) was
(B) were
(C) are
(D) is

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q867.
Choose the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) neither
(B) nor
(C) or
(D) either

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q868.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) about
(B) in
(C) on
(D) of

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q869.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) in
(B) for
(C) with
(D) on

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q870.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) with
(B) for
(C) to
(D) of

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q871.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) in
(B) to
(C) and
(D) for

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q872.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) to
(B) for
(C) up
(D) on

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q873.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) for
(B) at
(C) to
(D) in

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q874.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) an
(B) for
(C) the
(D) a

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q875.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) a
(B) an
(C) the
(D) few

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q876.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) up
(B) to
(C) on
(D) in

PASSAGE: A record rise in child poverty. Setbacks to progress on 2_________ vaccinations. Disruption to education for entire generation. That harm 3________ as an unintended side effect of the world's efforts to manage the crisis. COVID has been a uniquely dis-equalizing crisis. Lopsided 4________ vaccines aside, learning losses have been greatest among poorest children, and job losses have been disproportionately borne by women and youth. What next for the world’s children in the year ahead? As in the past two years, prospects for children will continue to hinge 5________ on the pandemic and how it is managed. SubQuestion No : 21
Q877.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no.1
(A) at
(B) off
(C) in
(D) to

Q878.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Accommodate
(B) Conscientious
(C) Mischievious
(D) Ostentatious

Q879.
Select the correctly spelt word.
(A) Conscientous
(B) Conscietious
(C) Conscencious
(D) Conscientious

Q880.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Reinforcement
(B) Motivational
(C) Opportunity
(D) Atributes

Q881.
Simplify
15.5 − [3 − {7 − (5 − (14.5 − 13.5))}].
(A) 15.5
(B) 13.5
(C) 14.5
(D) 12.5

Q882.
Select the correctly spelt word.
(A) Exhileration
(B) Exilaration
(C) Exhillaration
(D) Exhilaration

Q883.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Centenary
(B) Consumerist
(C) Capitalist
(D) Countemptible

Q884.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Miscalculation
(B) Eficient
(C) Mediation
(D) Contribution

Q885.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Privilege
(B) Accommodate
(C) Mischievious
(D) Millennium

Q886.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Embarrass
(B) Accommodate
(C) Exhilerate
(D) Occurrence

Q887.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word..
(A) Confidential
(B) Measerement
(C) Region
(D) Strengths

Q888.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Bureaucracy
(B) Embarrass
(C) Connoisseur
(D) Relevent

Q889.
Select the correctly spelt word.
(A) Collaegue
(B) Conscensus
(C) Entrepreneurship
(D) Bizzaire

Q890.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Voluptuous
(B) Vomitus
(C) Verminous
(D) Verifibility

Q891.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Occurence
(B) Harassment
(C) Supersede
(D) Exaggerate

Q892.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Accessibility
(B) Apparatus
(C) Aptitude
(D) Atrocios

Q893.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Connoisseur
(B) Privilege
(C) Neccessary
(D) Dilemma

Q894.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Necessary
(B) Accommodate
(C) Possession
(D) Recieve

Q895.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Embarrass
(B) Discipline
(C) National
(D) Convinient

Q896.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Cemetery
(B) Occurrence
(C) Beggining
(D) Interrupt

Q897.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Allocation
(B) Abismal
(C) Aversion
(D) Allegation

Q898.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Possession
(B) Referred
(C) Weather
(D) Unfourseen

Q899.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word
(A) Tangiable
(B) Terracotta
(C) Terracide
(D) Tertial

Q900.
Select the correctly spelt word.
(A) Privilege
(B) Privilej
(C) Priviledge
(D) Privelege

Q901.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Succeed
(B) Preceed
(C) Proceed
(D) Exceed

Q902.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Atempt
(B) Agree
(C) Admit
(D) Guilty

Q903.
Find the value of the following expression.
(A) -
(B) -
(C) -
(D) -

Q904.
The value of
is:
(A) 2
(B) −1
(C) 1
(D) 0

Q905.
1
(A) 45°
(B) 30°
(C) 75°
(D) 90°
