==============================================================================
FILE      : SSC_CPO_2023_EN.txt
SOURCE PDF: ssc_papers/merged/SSC_CPO_2023_EN.pdf
SUBJECT   : English Comprehension
QUESTIONS : 457
==============================================================================

Q1.
Select the sentence that has a spelling error.
A- Keeping cities clean and free of germs is particularly essential for keeping their
residents healthy.
B- Our health depends not just on our nutrition and personal hygeine but also on how
we clean our cities and surroundings.
C- The spread of various diseases is intricately linked to the deteriorating state of
public health condition.
D- The good news is that waste management, to keep cities clean, is now getting
attention through the Swachh Bharat Mission.
(A) The good news is that waste management, to keep cities clean, is now getting attention through the Swachh Bharat Mission.
(B) The spread of various diseases is intricately linked to the deteriorating state of public health condition.
(C) Keeping cities clean and free of germs is particularly essential for keeping their residents healthy.
(D) Our health depends not just on our nutrition and personal hygeine but also on how we clean our cities and surroundings.

Q2.
Select the sentence that has a spelling error.
A- One has to understand the rudimentery fact that intelligence and intellect are at two
opposite poles.
B- An intellectual person may have all the knowledge of the world but won’t know how
to give it a shape.
C- Knowledge will plague the individual if he does not have the intelligence to express
it.
D- Without basic intelligence, an individual is trapped within himself manifesting
conflicts and ignorance in the external world.
(A) Without basic intelligence, an individual is trapped within himself, manifesting conflicts and ignorance in the external world.
(B) An intellectual person may have all the knowledge of the world but won’t know how to give it a shape.
(C) Knowledge will plague the individual if he does not have the intelligence to express it.
(D) One has to understand the rudimentery fact that intelligence and intellect are at two opposite poles.

Q3.
Select the sentence that has a spelling error.
A- A fisherman, enfeebled with age, could no longer go out to sea so he began fishing
in the river.
B- Every morning he would go down to the river and sit there fishing the whole day
long.
C- In the evening, he would sell whatever he had caught, buy food for himself and go
home.
D- One hot afternoon, while he was bemoaning his fate, a large bird alited near him.
(A) One hot afternoon, while he was bemoaning his fate, a large bird alited near him.
(B) In the evening, he would sell whatever he had caught, buy food for himself and go home.
(C) A fisherman, enfeebled with age, could no longer go out to sea so he began fishing in the river.
(D) Every morning he would go down to the river and sit there fishing the whole day long.

Q4.
Select the sentence that has a spelling error.
A- The art of living is learnt easily by those who are positive and optimistic.
B- We can learn a lot about the art of living by having a peep into the lives of great
men.
C- The daily routines of these great men dissiminate that they are different.
D- Their unique lifestyles help us learn certain habits and practices that they followed.
(A) The daily routines of these great men dissiminate that they are different.
(B) Their unique lifestyles help us learn certain habits and practices that they followed.
(C) We can learn a lot about the art of living by having a peep into the lives of great men.
(D) The art of living is learnt easily by those who are positive and optimistic.

Q5.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word from the underlined words in the following
sentence.
It is important to see school holistically, it is not a set of atomic items of rooms, library,
assembly halls, canteen and playgrounds; it is all of these but in symbiotic
relationship with each other, the contors of which are often far too obvious and often
simply mysterious.
(A) mysterious
(B) symbiotic
(C) contors
(D) holistically

Q6.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. One of them may contain
an error. Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find
any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
Anant was telling a story about his most recent exploits when a tree branch break the
living room window.
(A) about his most recent exploits
(B) when a tree branch break the living room window
(C) Anant was telling a story
(D) No error

Q7.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. One of them may contain
an error. Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find
any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
You arrived two days ago. By the time you leave, you will have spent nine days here.
(A) You arrived two days ago
(B) No error
(C) By the time you leave
(D) you will have spent nine days here

Q8.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
There was no other book / in the English language / which is as interesting as this one.
(A) There was no other book
(B) in the English language
(C) No error
(D) which is as interesting as this one

Q9.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
I wanted to buy a candle holder, / but the store didn't have one. / So, I got a cake.
(A) No error
(B) but the store didn't have one
(C) I wanted to buy a candle holder
(D) So, I got a cake

Q10.
In the following sentence, four words are underlined, out of which one word is
incorrectly spelt. Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
Traffic accidents are increasing steadily, and large cities are plaged by traffic
congestion. Worst of all is the air pollution caused by internal combustion engine,
uninterruptedly.
(A) plaged
(B) uninterruptedly
(C) congestion
(D) combustion

Q11.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. One of them may contain
an error. Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find
any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
Luckily, I managed to get a room in the college hostel, and I move in there.
(A) and I move in there
(B) Luckily, I managed to get a room
(C) in the college hostel
(D) No error

Q12.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the given situation.
He started with an online company and became a millionaire. Then, he sold it and
invested in the share market and earned more money. Now, he has invested in the
transportation industry and is generating huge wealth. What does he have?
(A) As genuine as a three-dollar bill
(B) Midas touch
(C) Rule of thumb
(D) Sticky fingers

Q13.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word from the underlined words in the following
sentence.
Communities must build their resileince, including adopting appropriate technologies
while making the most of traditional knowledge, and diversifying their livelihoods to
cope with current and future climate stress.
(A) livelihoods
(B) diversifying
(C) appropriate
(D) resileince

Q14.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. One of them may contain
an error. Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find
any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
We feed the horse oats for a week because it had eaten all the hay.
(A) No error
(B) it had eaten all the hay
(C) We feed the horse oats
(D) for a week because

Q15.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
We will / have been know the result / of the CAT exam by next week.
(A) of the CAT exam by next week
(B) We will
(C) have been know the result
(D) No error

Q16.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
Children and adolescents with a morbid compulsion to steal experience a growing
sense of tension just before stealing, followed by pleasure, relief or gratification
during or just after stealing.
(A) Pyromania
(B) Kleptomania
(C) Dipsomania
(D) Megalomania

Q17.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
My elder brother / yesterday had took / my Facebook password.
(A) my Facebook password
(B) yesterday had took
(C) My elder brother
(D) No error

Q18.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word from the underlined words in the following
sentence.
But he waited with the inconceivable patience and persistancy of the race; besides, he
was certain, the cat was a creature of absolute convictions and his faith in his
deductions never wavered.
(A) inconceivable
(B) deductions
(C) convictions
(D) persistancy

Q19.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the
given sentence.
The Board of Film Analysts vituperated the novice Indonesian film-maker and
cancelled its nomination for the ‘Golden Globe Award’.
(A) lamented the untimely death of
(B) censured with harsh and abusive language
(C) dealt in a delicate and polite manner
(D) recognised and praised the talent of

Q20.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The team leader tried to remain positive or optimistic in the situation, even though
they were facing tough competition and limited resources.
(A) to put a strong hand forward
(B) to put on a strong exterior
(C) to put a strong desire in front of
(D) to put a brave face on

Q21.
In the following sentence, four words are underlined, out of which one word is
incorrectly spelt. Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
The ruins of many structures that still stand tall in their granduer are testimony to the
fact that Mewar was not only the land of the courageous .
(A) testimony
(B) courageous
(C) granduer
(D) ruins

Q22.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
He are very thirsty. / Give him / a little water to drink.
(A) Give him
(B) a little water to drink
(C) He are very thirsty
(D) No error

Q23.
Which real life situation can be the most appropriate to be inferred from the passage?
(A) Inflation has direct influence on the morals and ethics of an individual.
(B) If we do something wrong to decent people, the same comes to haunt us even after many years.
(C) People nowadays do not have patience and want quick success and does not matter what path they choose to obtain their targets.
(D) Jassie is an efficient employee whose work ethics can be a case study to learn more about organisational and personal excellence.

Q24.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution’.
This case is serious. You need to look into this matter; otherwise, the situation will get
out of control soon.
(A) look up
(B) look at
(C) No substitution
(D) look after

Q25.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
I am sure Helena / would passes / with flying colours.
(A) would passes
(B) No error
(C) I am sure Helena
(D) with flying colours

Q26.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
Neem tastes / a little bitterly, / but is very useful.
(A) a little bitterly
(B) Neem tastes
(C) but is very useful
(D) No error

Q27.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
(1) He could / (2) be pass his exams / (3) if he studied harder. / (4) No error
(A) 2
(B) 1
(C) 3
(D) 4

Q28.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’
The unexpected turn beside the project put the company in a big financial crisis.
(A) in the project
(B) until the project
(C) No substitution required
(D) between the project

Q29.
In two circles centred at O and O’, the distance between the centres of both circles is
17 cm. The points of contact of a direct common tangent between the circles are P and
Q. If the radii of both circles are 7 cm and 15 cm, respectively, then the length of PQ is
equal to:
(A) 15 cm
(B) 17 cm
(C) 10 cm
(D) 22 cm

Q30.
Choose the most suitable idiom for the given situation.
Ravi has a strong desire to be in college hockey team this year and he is working hard
to gain such skills to fulfill his goal of life. He has clearly made up his mind to achieve
his target.
(A) To rise to the occasion
(B) To make the cut
(C) Set sights on
(D) To move the goal posts

Q31.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
We should / not make an noise / in the class.
(A) in the class
(B) We should
(C) No error
(D) not make an noise

Q32.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
I was wish / to meet her / on her birthday.
(A) I was wish
(B) No error
(C) to meet her
(D) on her birthday

Q33.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
The university has putting off / the semester examination / for the second time now /
due to technical issues.
(A) the semester examination
(B) due to technical issues
(C) for the second time now
(D) The university has putting off

Q34.
Study the given table and answer the question that follows.
The table shows the consumption of food grains per day (in grams) in the given set of
following years.
For which food grain consumption was there successive increase over the given set of
years?
(A) Rice
(B) Pulses
(C) Coarse grains
(D) Wheat

Q35.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence.
The use of chemicals, insecticides and pesticides began after the Green Revolution.
(A) A practice of chemicals, insecticides and pesticides
(B) The custom of chemicals, insecticides and pesticides
(C) Consumption of chemicals, insecticides and pesticides
(D) The usage of chemicals, insecticides and pesticides

Q36.
You are preparing a speech for an upcoming function. Select a synonym for the
highlighted word to make it better.
Effective public transportation networks may greatly alleviate traffic congestion and
enhance inhabitants’ quality of life in general.
(A) Amplification
(B) Diversion
(C) Gridlock
(D) Laxity

Q37.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
The Taj Mahal is one of the much popular seven wonders of the world.
(A) No substitution required
(B) more
(C) much more
(D) most

Q38.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
She will have participate / in the dance competition / by the time her father / returns
from the tour.
(A) in the dance competition
(B) She will have participate
(C) by the time her father
(D) returns from the tour

Q39.
According to the passage, which of the following is NOT a cause of the spread of false
information on social media?
(A) Lack of education and critical thinking skills among social media users.
(B) Inability to discern between credible sources and fake news.
(C) Social media companies’ failure to regulate false information on their platforms.
(D) The desire of people to engage in controversial and sensational content.

Q40.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Payal’s father was seen desperately searching for the medicine that can counteract the
effect of a venomous snakebite in Parul’s left hand.
(A) antiseptic
(B) anti-serum
(C) remedy
(D) antidote

Q41.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
A Prime Minister of India / will address / the nation today / on the occasion of
Independence Day.
(A) A Prime Minister of India
(B) the nation today
(C) on the occasion of Independence Day
(D) will address

Q42.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
Politics and money go together in this country.
(A) go arm in arm
(B) go holding hands
(C) go hand in hand
(D) No substitution required

Q43.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
It was a quite afternoon, so Dan decided to take a nap.
(A) an quiet
(B) an quite
(C) No substitution required
(D) a quiet

Q44.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
“You look so young! / When did you completed your graduation?” / asked Rekha / to
her neighbour.
(A) to her neighbour
(B) When did you completed your graduation?
(C) asked Rekha
(D) You look so young!

Q45.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution’.
I like to read books, but my brother prefers to watching movies.
(A) in watching
(B) to watch
(C) on watching
(D) No substitution

Q46.
Four words have been underlined in the given sentence of which one word has a
spelling error. Identify the incorrectly spelt word.
The tiger thrshed (A) against his chains (B) in the cage at the circus (C) but nobody
paid him any heed (D).
(A) thrshed
(B) circus
(C) chains
(D) heed

Q47.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
The cat climbed a tree and perched itself on a branch.
(A) parched
(B) No substitution required
(C) perked
(D) perished

Q48.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word ‘discordant’ in the given sentence
and choose the correct option.
The sweet melodious symphony of the piano filled the room, transporting the listeners
to a world of beauty and emotion.
(A) Filled
(B) Melodious
(C) Transporting
(D) Emotion

Q49.
What is the author's opinion of social media in this passage?
(A) Social media has had a mostly positive impact on society, despite some drawbacks.
(B) Social media is responsible for the spread of false information, but its impact on society is otherwise neutral.
(C) Social media has changed the way we communicate, but has also brought about significant negative consequences.
(D) Social media is a powerful tool for communication that has many benefits.

Q50.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
He travelled the whole world, but found piece at home.
(A) peach
(B) No substitution required
(C) prize
(D) peace

Q51.
You are preparing a speech for the upcoming function. Select a synonym for the
highlighted word to make it better.
Despite the advancement in technology many rural areas in developing countries still
lack access to basic necessities.
(A) Desist
(B) Disguise
(C) Avenue
(D) Apathy

Q52.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Any sort of unfair conduct is not tolerated in international sports tournaments as it
can completely ruin an athlete’s career.
(A) straw in the eye
(B) hand in the mud
(C) foul play
(D) red handed

Q53.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution’.
The teacher asked the students to be quite during the exam.
(A) No substitution
(B) be quiet
(C) have quiet
(D) been quiet

Q54.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word from the underlined words in the following
sentence.
As affidevit is a statement or declaration in writing an oath or affirmation, sworn
before a person having authority to administer oath.
(A) affidevit
(B) administer
(C) authority
(D) affirmation

Q55.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
There is a spectrum / of seas around that / land which attracts / tourists of all aging.
(A) tourists of all aging.
(B) There is a spectrum
(C) land which attracts
(D) of seas around that

Q56.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
Despite of an injury, he won the match.
(A) No substitution required
(B) In spite off
(C) Despite
(D) In despite of

Q57.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
Her paintings are way better then her sketches.
(A) off
(B) than
(C) more
(D) No substitution required

Q58.
You are preparing a speech for an upcoming function. Select a synonym for the
highlighted word to make it better.
Sexual assault is a severe and pervasive issue that can have a significant impact on a
victim’s life.
(A) Retrospective
(B) Longitudinal
(C) Widespread
(D) Equatorial

Q59.
Select the most appropriate idiomatic expression to substitute for the underlined
segment in the given sentence.
I had to work late in the night for nearly three months to write my first book.
(A) to take a back seat
(B) to burn the midnight oil
(C) to blow a fuse
(D) to look through coloured glasses

Q60.
Select the most appropriate one-word substitution of the given group of words.
A form of government in which the supreme power is vested in the people and
exercised by their elected agents under a free electoral system.
(A) Democracy
(B) Anarchy
(C) Monarchy
(D) Autocracy

Q61.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence.
The village Seoni is located 113 km away from the capital city of MP, Bhopal.
(A) adjacent from city capital of MP, Bhopal
(B) far from the capital city of MP, Bhopal
(C) near from the city capital of MP, Bhopal
(D) proximate from capital of MP, Bhopal

Q62.
Select the most appropriate idiom to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
My final round of Spell Bee Competition is coming up and to win this event, I need to
study hard from today.
(A) burn the books
(B) hit the books
(C) cut to the chase
(D) pour my heart out

Q63.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word ‘viable’ in the given sentence and
choose the correct option.
The engineer’s design was optimised for efficiency and scalability, with a focus on
sustainability.
(A) Efficiency
(B) Optimised
(C) Scalability
(D) Sustainability

Q64.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word ‘disclosed’ in the given sentence
and choose the correct option.
The linguist’s analysis of the language revealed patterns and structures that were
previously unknown.
(A) Linguist
(B) Patterns
(C) Revealed
(D) Unknown

Q65.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
Harry is the one sitting on the corner.
(A) No substitution required
(B) upon
(C) onto
(D) in

Q66.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
At some point in the past, there were rows of temporary shops that used to display
various cooking utensils.
(A) One upon a time
(B) Before now
(C) In the past few years
(D) Long ago

Q67.
Fill in the blank by selecting the meaningful and correctly spelt word from the given
options.
They knew that the stock of the food was getting reduced and the fund________for
that was not enough for the next week.
(A) asserted
(B) allotted
(C) alerted
(D) abandoned

Q68.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In case
no improvement is needed, select 'No improvement required'.
Lily has dedicate her life towards becoming a doctor.
(A) had dedicate
(B) is dedicate
(C) No improvement required
(D) has dedicated

Q69.
Select the statement that most appropriately sums up the passage given.
(A) Some people cannot be identified due to their most effective ways in 25 years.
(B) Research grants in an organisation should be increased for personal excellence.
(C) It takes 25 years of research to make people more effective and influential.
(D) Some people are more effective and more influential than others to get things done.

Q70.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
Rahim had to eat a humble pie in starting a row with his neighbour over a trifle.
(A) To remain without food
(B) To be punished for doing something wrong
(C) To take simple food
(D) To feel sorry and apologise for a mistake

Q71.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
O’ Henry’s short stories are read all over the world till now because they are pithy.
(A) fascinating and lengthy
(B) elusive and unreal
(C) exaggerated yet short
(D) concise and expressive

Q72.
Study the given table and answer the question that follows.
The table shows the number of employees in five different organisations A, B, C, D and
E in different departments.
Which organisation has minimum number of employees?
(A) C
(B) B
(C) D
(D) E

Q73.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
All my efforts went in vain. The project on which I was working for the last two months
has failed and we are ________________________ .
(A) all in the seventh heaven
(B) back to square one
(C) on the fly
(D) around the bend

Q74.
Select the correct idiom to substitute the underlined word segment in the following
sentence.
She trusted her husband but he stabbed her in the neck when he usurped her
inheritance.
(A) stabbed her in the back
(B) stabbed her prospects
(C) stabbed her with a fork
(D) snapped her in the neck

Q75.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Health insurance are important today since anyone can face a medical emergency
without warning.
(A) will be important
(B) has been important
(C) was important
(D) is important

Q76.
Some words in the following sentence have been underlined and given as options.
Select the option that contains a spelling error.
Roshni does a fabulouous job at her company and has been offered a promotion.
(A) fabulouous
(B) company
(C) promotion
(D) offered

Q77.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the given situation focusing on the underlined
segment.
I know every detail of his accident because I heard the facts directly from him.
(A) Speak of the devil
(B) Get something out of your system
(C) Pour one’s heart out
(D) Straight from horse’s mouth

Q78.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
I have a dog and a cow. / A dog is black / but the cow is / black and white.
(A) A dog is black
(B) black and white
(C) but the cow is
(D) I have a dog and a cow

Q79.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
They will not attend / the event / as they’re going / away at end of April.
(A) away at end of April.
(B) as they’re going
(C) the event
(D) They will not attend

Q80.
Select the most appropriate one-word substitution of the given group of words.
A pretence of having a virtuous character, moral or religious beliefs or principles, etc.,
that one does not really possess.
(A) Shrewdness
(B) Naivety
(C) Gullibility
(D) Hypocrisy

Q81.
Select the word segment that substitutes (replaces) the bracketed word segment
correctly and completes the sentence meaningfully:
Unless you (do will not prepare) well you will not perform well.
(A) would not prepare
(B) prepare
(C) will do not prepare
(D) will prepare

Q82.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Roger went / to an United Kingdom / with his wife / to celebrate Christmas.
(A) Roger went
(B) to an United Kingdom
(C) to celebrate Christmas
(D) with his wife

Q83.
Select the most appropriate one-word substitution of the given group of words.
A list of source materials that are used or consulted in the preparation of a work or
that are referred to in the text.
(A) Bibliography
(B) Bibliophile
(C) Bibliotheca
(D) Bibliomemoir

Q84.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the given situation focusing on the underlined
segment.
The modern era statistics data provides useful advantage to the players at competent
level.
(A) Cost an arm and a leg
(B) Grist to the mill
(C) Put something on ice
(D) Play it by ear

Q85.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
We have being / arranged the stay / for the guests at / a hillside resort.
(A) a hillside resort
(B) We have being
(C) arranged the stay
(D) for the guests at

Q86.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A collection of historical documents or records providing information about a place,
institution, or group of people
(A) Museum
(B) Apostate
(C) Asylum
(D) Archive

Q87.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the highlighted idiom in the given sentence.
Nancy held a grudge against her teacher for a long time, but she finally decided to let
bygones be bygones.
(A) Change the past
(B) Take revenge
(C) Flatter someone
(D) Ignore the past

Q88.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Mr. Khanna and family / have visit / Manali during / the summer vacation.
(A) have visit
(B) Mr. Khanna and family
(C) the summer vacation.
(D) Manali during

Q89.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Grasping at straws
(A) Trying to find the best way to compete with others when nothing you choose is likely to work
(B) Trying to find some way to succeed when you see others are also doing the same
(C) Trying to find some way to succeed when nothing you choose is likely to work
(D) Trying to find manipulative ways to succeed

Q90.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Someone who pretends to have certain moral standards while secretively that person
practices those very moral lapses.
(A) Sinner
(B) Actor
(C) Spy
(D) Hypocrite

Q91.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word ‘moving’ in the given sentence and
choose the correct option.
The old grandfather clock chimed loudly, marking the passage of time with its steady
tick-tock.
(A) Steady
(B) Marking
(C) Chimed
(D) Passage

Q92.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word ‘hinderance’ in the given sentence
and choose the correct option.
The refreshing breeze blew through the open window, bringing relief from the summer
heat.
(A) Bringing
(B) Blew
(C) Refreshing
(D) Relief

Q93.
Select the correct spelling for the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
The Eustachian tube and vestubular complex in the middle and inner ear, respectively,
have an important role to play.
(A) vestibular
(B) midle
(C) respictevely
(D) importent

Q94.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word ‘factual’ in the given sentence and
choose the correct option.
The scientist’s hypothesis was based on empirical evidence and rigorous
experimentation.
(A) Rigorous
(B) Hypothesis
(C) Evidence
(D) Empirical

Q95.
You are preparing a speech for the upcoming function. Select a synonym for the
highlighted word to make it better.
The education system must evolve to keep pace with the rapid changes in the job
market.
(A) Emanate
(B) Censor
(C) Demolish
(D) Conceal

Q96.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank and complete the meaning of the
sentence.
Most of the ministers are concerned with the _________ of office than the service of
man.
(A) leaps and bounds
(B) loaves and fishes
(C) wear and tear
(D) Herculean task

Q97.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
I have all the technical and communication skills necessary to crack any interview; it
will be _____________________ .
(A) a storm in a tea cup
(B) a chip on my shoulder
(C) a hard nut to crack
(D) a piece of cake for me

Q98.
Replace the underlined segment with the most appropriate idiom/phrase from the
following options.
This is the critical point of the issue. One should always be focused on it.
(A) Chip off the old block
(B) A black sheep
(C) The crux of the matter
(D) Don’t cry over spilt milk

Q99.
Choose the most appropriate meaning of the underlined phrase.
What we need is skilled and energetic planning and elbow grease.
(A) The grease that is earned through labour
(B) Hard work that one puts into cleaning one’s elbow
(C) Hard work that one puts into removing grease
(D) Hard work that one puts into doing something

Q100.
Some words in the following sentences have been underlined and given as options.
Select the option that contains a spelling error.
Why is everyone so dressed up? What’s the occaseon? Is it a wedding?
(A) wedding
(B) occaseon
(C) everyone
(D) dressed

Q101.
Select the option that can substitute the bracketed word segment correctly and
complete the following sentence meaningfully.
Lots of kids (was visualised) crossing the road when the bus arrived.
(A) were seen
(B) have been seen
(C) are seen
(D) was seen

Q102.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
One of their freighters, / a Neptune, / will be leaving/ in two weeks.
(A) One of their freighters
(B) will be leaving
(C) in two weeks
(D) a Neptune

Q103.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word from the underlined words in the following
sentence.
This was a blatent disregard to the advisory by the host against it and in violation of
norms of the meeting.
(A) advisory
(B) blatent
(C) disregard
(D) violation

Q104.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
Choosing not to pursue a degree in computer engineering was ________, as the
market for them is extremely limited nowadays.
(A) airy fairy
(B) a cut above
(C) an elevator pitch
(D) a blessing in disguise

Q105.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence.
Farmers have harvested wheat by using whatever labour that was available to them.
(A) by using amalgamated labour
(B) by using limited labour
(C) by using dispersed labour
(D) by using united labour

Q106.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
Since God is an all-powerful creator, he has absolute control over those whom he has
created.
(A) Voracious
(B) Omnipotent
(C) Incorrigible
(D) Omniscient

Q107.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a spelling error.
He wrote his dairy / in code / so that nobody / could understand it.
(A) so that nobody
(B) could understand it
(C) in code
(D) He wrote his dairy

Q108.
Select the most appropriate idiomatic expression that can substitute the underlined
segment in the given sentence.
Both Nitin and Uday are of the same interests.
(A) under the weather
(B) birds of the same feather
(C) blowing smoke without fire
(D) different kettles of fish

Q109.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
The postman / delivers the letters / through hand, / door to door.
(A) The postman
(B) delivers the letters
(C) door to door
(D) through hand

Q110.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence.
People say different things at different times.
(A) should say fanciful things at different times
(B) says delectable things at different times
(C) says whimsical things at different times
(D) say diverse things at different times

Q111.
Select the correct option to substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If
no substitution is required, select ‘No substitution’.
He is faster than smarter.
(A) more fast than smart
(B) fast than smart
(C) faster than being smart
(D) No substitution

Q112.
Some words in the following sentence have been underlined and given as options.
Select the option that contains a spelling error.
The rolling waves on the beach were so trainquil and soothing.
(A) beach
(B) trainquil
(C) soothing
(D) rolling

Q113.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
It is take / a couple of minutes / for the computer / to boot up.
(A) for the computer
(B) to boot up
(C) a couple of minutes
(D) It is take

Q114.
Identify from the given options the word most similar in meaning to the underlined
word according to its meaning in the following sentence.
He is a person who holds old fashioned opinions.
(A) obsolete
(B) ancient
(C) antique
(D) senior citizen

Q115.
Identify the sentence that correctly uses the indefinite article.
(A) There are three cars parked outside: a Mercedes, an Jaguar and a Fiat.
(B) There are three cars parked outside: an Mercedes, a Jaguar and a Fiat.
(C) There are three cars parked outside: a Mercedes, a Jaguar and a Fiat.
(D) There are three cars parked outside: a Mercedes, an Jaguar and an Fiat.

Q116.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A disease prevalent in a community or a specific region at a specific time, affecting a
large area.
(A) Pandemic
(B) Eradicate
(C) Epidemic
(D) Endemic

Q117.
Select the option that best expresses the meaning of the underlined idiom.
Christy should discuss this with her face to face.
(A) With another person in their presence rather than, say, by phone or letter
(B) Come to fully accept or understand something
(C) Remained normal and realistic
(D) Almost always

Q118.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the given sentence.
I hate to get off on the wrong foot.
(A) To start something with positive factors
(B) To start something with neutral factors
(C) To start a relationship or activity badly
(D) To start something with an injury on the wrong foot

Q119.
What is the author's purpose in writing this passage?
(A) To warn readers of the dangers of spreading false information on social media.
(B) To provide an in-depth analysis of the benefits of social media for communication.
(C) To explain the history of propaganda and misinformation and its impact on society.
(D) To persuade readers to delete their social media accounts.

Q120.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Rajib’s habit of sneering at the beliefs of others often hurts others’ sentiments.
(A) manipulation
(B) cynicism
(C) certainty
(D) cleverness

Q121.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The decision to engage in an armed conflict is tacit.
(A) incomprehensible for some
(B) ineffective completely
(C) regretted by everyone
(D) implied without being stated

Q122.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
How did you become interested in learning the art of producing beautiful handwriting?
(A) Lexicography
(B) Demography
(C) Calligraphy
(D) Graphology

Q123.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
He made a mess of that bookcase he was supposed to be repairing.
(A) made a pig’s ear
(B) had a butcher hook
(C) made a clean breast
(D) brought a dog’s breast

Q124.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
I have never / come to / such a kind person / like my friend.
(A) such a kind person
(B) like my friend
(C) come to
(D) I have never

Q125.
Select the correct option to substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If
no substitution is required, select ‘No substitution’.
Her smile is similar to her mother.
(A) No substitution
(B) her mother’s
(C) mother
(D) the mother

Q126.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
You can become confident to speak English within one year.
(A) convinced to speaking
(B) reassured of speaking
(C) assured of speaking
(D) confident in speaking

Q127.
Select the word which means the same as the group of words underlined in the given
sentence.
The pandemic deeply affected small business owners, as they have no means of
livelihood left.
(A) Pauper
(B) Worker
(C) Unemployed
(D) Mason

Q128.
Choose the idiom that can best substitute the underlined part of the given sentence.
Shelley ignored her father’s wish of studying arts and instead took admission in
commerce.
(A) Blew over
(B) Big fish
(C) Bid defiance to
(D) Beyond the pale

Q129.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The manager noticed a discrepancy between the two audit reports.
(A) deliberate mistake
(B) selfish interest
(C) major difference
(D) great similarity

Q130.
Choose the most appropriate meaning of the underlined phrase.
Ram could not go to Delhi for vacation since he was banking on his arrears of pay
which he did not get in time
(A) Sloping on
(B) Depending on his bank
(C) Calling on
(D) Relying on

Q131.
Select the most appropriate idiomatic expression to fill in the blank.
Our Director took a meeting and asked us to express our views on ___________ of the
new HR policy.
(A) the bandwagon
(B) the pros and cons
(C) the hook
(D) the ups and downs

Q132.
Identify the option that rectifies the spelling of the incorrectly spelt word in the given
sentence.
The disadvantages of listening to music at a loud voluume include loss of hearing.
(A) Lissening
(B) Lose
(C) Heering
(D) Volume

Q133.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
The students / are expected / to come / in the right time.
(A) in the right time
(B) The students
(C) to come
(D) are expected

Q134.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined phrase.
She can't make up her mind where to go for her summer vacation.
(A) Decide between alternatives or come to a decision
(B) Decide on a suitable parlour
(C) Decide how to do her makeup
(D) Engage her mind in creative activities

Q135.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Naina is leaving and I am think to apply for her job.
(A) thinking in applying
(B) thinking about applying
(C) thinking about apply
(D) thinking on applying

Q136.
Select the correct spelling of the incorrectly spelt word.
They were more often abnoxious than not, impatient with me because my services had
been essentially imposed upon them.
(A) obnoxious
(B) impatint
(C) servises
(D) essentialy

Q137.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
My apartment / in Delhi / is situated / on second floor.
(A) is situated
(B) in Delhi
(C) My apartment
(D) on second floor

Q138.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The book narrated the athlete’s prowess in a lucid manner.
(A) refined arguments
(B) exceptional mastery
(C) difficult situation
(D) affluent days

Q139.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the underlined word segment.
He seems to be undecided about whether to move to another city for better prospects.
(A) Bouncing off the walls
(B) Running out of steam
(C) Sitting on the fence
(D) Counting down the days

Q140.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Do you believe that you have a possibility of getting that job?
(A) spill the beans
(B) snow job
(C) stand a chance
(D) shoot the breeze

Q141.
Select the correct spelling of the incorrectly spelt word.
He had a round face made jovial by bright, almost boyish eyes and eyebrows
ridiculusly small for a man his size.
(A) ridicolusly
(B) jouvial
(C) juvial
(D) ridiculously

Q142.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
After losing his job and his home, he found himself destitute and living on the streets.
(A) glorious
(B) disturbed
(C) affluent
(D) ridiculous

Q143.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
The Egyptian Pharohs were the Kings of ancient Egypt and were considered as the
literal embodiment of God himself.
(A) literal
(B) ancient
(C) pharohs
(D) embodiment

Q144.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains an error.
Have they been work in that particular shop for several years?
(A) work
(B) been
(C) for
(D) Have

Q145.
Select the correct idiom that can substitute the italicised group of words in the given
sentence.
He really stinks and smells foul after a hard session at the gym.
(A) an old flame
(B) an iron will
(C) pen and ink
(D) lame excuse

Q146.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
He got a burst of energy and started digging again.
(A) took bull by the horns
(B) a fancy of someone
(C) second wind
(D) heart on the sleeve

Q147.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A structure in the garden where climbing plants can grow and people can walk under
(A) Tomb
(B) Outhouse
(C) Pergola
(D) Treehouse

Q148.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The platter was insipid, so we refused to pay the bill.
(A) full of flavours
(B) filled with dirt
(C) full of spices
(D) lacking taste

Q149.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
An animal or a person that eats all types of food, especially plants and meat
(A) Vegetarian
(B) Herbivore
(C) Omnivore
(D) Carnivore

Q150.
Identify the option that rectifies the spelling of the incorrectly spelt word in the given
sentence.
Students should have a good vocabulary to write an essay efectively.
(A) Gud
(B) Effectively
(C) Wriite
(D) Voicabulary

Q151.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Raman ate the cake and exclaimed that it tasted sweetly.
(A) the cake
(B) and exclaimed that
(C) it tasted sweetly
(D) Raman ate

Q152.
Select the grammatically correct sentence.
(A) The simple mistake which was committed by the boy haunted her for years.
(B) An simple mistake which was committed by the boy haunted her for years.
(C) A simple mistake which was committed by an boy haunted her for years.
(D) The simple mistake which was committed by an boy haunted her for years.

Q153.
Which of the following is NOT mentioned as a way social media has changed the way
we communicate?
(A) Quick, abbreviated messages with emojis and acronyms.
(B) Video conferencing for more meaningful conversations.
(C) Connecting with people from all over the world.
(D) The use of hashtags.

Q154.
Select the most appropriate one-word substitution of the given group of words.
A notice of the death of a person, often with a biographical sketch, as in a newspaper.
(A) Obituary
(B) Oblivion
(C) Elegy
(D) Advertisement

Q155.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The concert was filled with rapt teenage listeners.
(A) really fashionable
(B) boldly dressed
(C) truly energetic
(D) fully attentive

Q156.
What is one of the downsides of social media mentioned in the passage?
(A) It can help connect with people all over the globe.
(B) It's a great way to stay connected with friends and family.
(C) It encourages people to enjoy the little moments in life.
(D) It can lead to pressure to present a perfect life online.

Q157.
Identify the error in tense and choose the correct form of the verb in present tense
from the following options.
My teacher often forget the name of students.
(A) was forgetting
(B) have been forgetting
(C) forgot
(D) forgets

Q158.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
Ms. Scarlet was indifferent to pain and pleasure, she never complained.
(A) Hypocrite
(B) Stoic
(C) Versatile
(D) Amateur

Q159.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the
given sentence.
The new professor is liked by his students for his amiable approach.
(A) simple
(B) strict
(C) academic
(D) friendly

Q160.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
To make a low continuous vibratory sound expressing contentment (of a cat).
(A) To meow
(B) To purr
(C) To buzz
(D) To roar

Q161.
Choose the option which means the same as the underlined segment.
The boss wanted to finish the case before the arrival of the Inspection team.
(A) be over and done with
(B) be over one’s head
(C) be over and over
(D) be over a barrel

Q162.
Select the correct idiom to replace the underlined segment in the given sentence.
We should ask Emily to join our team. She is as keen as butter.
(A) as keen as a bee
(B) as keen as mustard
(C) as keen as salt
(D) as keen as sugar

Q163.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Detailed list of goods dispatched with quantity and price to the purchaser.
(A) Ledger
(B) Sales
(C) Receipt
(D) Invoice

Q164.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the given situation.
You wanted to speak but you controlled yourself and became patient. What have you
done?
(A) Pin drop silence
(B) Dragged your feet
(C) Herculean task
(D) Held your horses

Q165.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the highlighted idiom in the given sentence.
She said she liked my hair, but it turned out to be a left handed compliment.
(A) A joke
(B) A flattery
(C) An insult
(D) A praise

Q166.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
A gust of wind came abruptly and our sand castle toppled.
(A) tumbled down
(B) ran after
(C) turned up
(D) blew out

Q167.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The office management was in dire straits after the financial crash.
(A) To be extremely happy
(B) In a very bad situation
(C) Being direct or fair
(D) To walk on already trodden paths

Q168.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
The dancers swayed dainty on the stage last night.
(A) last night
(B) on the stage
(C) The dancers
(D) swayed dainty

Q169.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
We dodged a bullet when we didn’t fall for the agents’ words.
(A) To give something a try
(B) To narrowly avoid situation
(C) To be out of your comfort zone
(D) To start performing better

Q170.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Rani was extreme upset with her results this year.
(A) extreme upset
(B) this year
(C) with her results
(D) Rani was

Q171.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
She was yearning for a trip to the mountains.
(A) leaving for
(B) deeply repenting
(C) keenly desiring
(D) saving money for

Q172.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom that can be substituted in
the following sentence.
Right now, my hands are full.
(A) My hands are filled up
(B) My hands are swollen
(C) I’m very tired
(D) I’m very busy

Q173.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
There are others waiting to grab an opportunity; if you don’t act fast, you are going to
(A) be in the same boat
(B) a full boat
(C) push the boat out
(D) miss the boat

Q174.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined words.
He was not willing to attend the technical session of the conference.
(A) dejecting
(B) reluctant
(C) curious
(D) comprehensive

Q175.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
A leopard can't change his spots
(A) Someone who is cherished above all others
(B) A visual presentation is far more descriptive than words
(C) Something good that isn't recognised at first
(D) You cannot change who you are

Q176.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A book published after author’s death.
(A) Posthuman publication
(B) Posthumous publication
(C) Supernatural publication
(D) Predecessor publication

Q177.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Working or operating quickly and effectively in an organised way
(A) Efficient
(B) Extensive
(C) Excellent
(D) Effusive

Q178.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
Will Ramya / had completed / that work / by 2025?
(A) by 2025
(B) that work
(C) had completed
(D) Will Ramya

Q179.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The court absolved the defendant of all charges due to lack of evidence.
(A) accused
(B) condemned
(C) attacked
(D) criticised

Q180.
Identify the option that rectifies the underlined spelling error in the given sentence.
Mountainering is now looked upon as the king of sports.
(A) Mounteineering
(B) Mountainearing
(C) Mountaineering
(D) Mountainouring

Q181.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Requiring exceptional skill or caution in performance or handling
(A) Blunt
(B) Tricky
(C) Sustainable
(D) Abstract

Q182.
According to the passage, what is one of the challenges of creative expression?
(A) The absence of external pressures and constraints.
(B) The limited capacity of the human mind.
(C) The lack of appreciation for creative ideas.
(D) The overemphasis on conscious problem-solving.

Q183.
According to the passage, what is the solution to the issue of stupidity in society?
(A) Embracing ignorance and misinformation
(B) Teaching students how to pass tests
(C) Electing politicians with catchy slogans
(D) Encouraging critical thinking and problem-solving skills

Q184.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word which has
been incorrectly spelt.
They have begun to study in sepparate rooms.
(A) saperate
(B) separate
(C) seprate
(D) saparate

Q185.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the
given sentence.
Kiran’s teacher was doubtful on her success.
(A) doubtful beyond
(B) doubtful in
(C) doubtful off
(D) doubtful of

Q186.
Choose the most appropriate meaning of the underlined phrase.
He was carried off his feet when he was declared to have won the prize.
(A) Was wild with excitement
(B) Was dizzy
(C) Became delirious
(D) Danced on his toes

Q187.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom that can be substituted in
the following sentence.
The new routine will suit you to a T.
(A) nicely
(B) a little bit
(C) exactly
(D) very poorly

Q188.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Spoken or done without any previous thought or preparation
(A) Inaugural
(B) Maiden
(C) Extempore
(D) Initiative

Q189.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the highlighted word in the given sentence.
The plane crash was a harrowing experience for everyone involved.
(A) Exterminate
(B) Excruciating
(C) Awesome
(D) Sad

Q190.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined idiom/phrase in
the given sentence.
You cannot throw dust into my eyes.
(A) terrify me
(B) hurt me
(C) abuse me
(D) mislead or deceive me

Q191.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A keeper or custodian of a museum or other collection
(A) Cartographer
(B) Calligrapher
(C) Curator
(D) Chauffeur

Q192.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
It was inevitable that the team management would sack him after his rude behaviour.
(A) impassionate
(B) amiable
(C) measurable
(D) unavoidable

Q193.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
More people in Turkey are on the breadline now than thirty years ago.
(A) Be very poor
(B) Are well educated
(C) Be very expensive
(D) Earn a lot of money

Q194.
Select the most appropriate idiom or phrase to complete the given sentence.
I like her because she never likes to make _________.
(A) a slap on the wrist
(B) a drop in the bucket
(C) a bed of roses
(D) a quick buck

Q195.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
I did not even listen to him; he was only talking through his hat.
(A) Talking non-stop
(B) Talking garrulously
(C) Talking nonsense
(D) Talking ignorantly

Q196.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
We’ve sent a very strong protest letter. That should make them sit up and take notice.
(A) Follow
(B) Attend
(C) Observe
(D) Consider

Q197.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
You must lie in the bed you have made.
(A) Face the unpleasant consequences of your own acts
(B) Sleep on the bed you made yourself
(C) Sleep in your own bed
(D) Be contended always

Q198.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
To restrain or compel a person to do something by force.
(A) Convoy
(B) Consensus
(C) Coerce
(D) Casualty

Q199.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
All members of the association adhere to a strict code of practice.
(A) observe
(B) cling
(C) flout
(D) comply

Q200.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
No longer used because something new has been invented
(A) Classic
(B) Ancient
(C) Ornamental
(D) Obsolete

Q201.
The curved surface area (CSA) and the total surface area (TSA) of a hemisphere whose
radius is 7 cm are:
(A) CSA – 350 cm2; TSA – 500 cm2
(B) CSA – 320 cm2; TSA – 480 cm2
(C) CSA – 412 cm2; TSA – 544 cm2
(D) CSA – 308 cm2; TSA – 462 cm2

Q202.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
An ability to do several things at the same time.
(A) Indictment
(B) Blasphemy
(C) Unitasking
(D) Multitasking

Q203.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Malati has a difficult job, but she does it good.
(A) better
(B) well
(C) best
(D) nice

Q204.
The average weight of 15 people increases by 3.2 kg when a new person comes in
place of one of them weighing 52 kg. The weight of the new person is:
(A) 48 kg
(B) 96 kg
(C) 100 kg
(D) 52 kg

Q205.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
Yamini is a great singer. She will make it big one day.
(A) Succeed and become famous
(B) Become financially sound
(C) Educated and rich
(D) Migrate and settle

Q206.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Steer clear of
(A) Loose temper and react furiously to someone
(B) Avoid someone or something because it is dangerous for you
(C) Show someone how to do a job or activity
(D) Be kind and empathetic to someone

Q207.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word which has
been incorrectly spelt.
Mrs. Lal taught me English gramar.
(A) grammar
(B) gramarr
(C) gramerr
(D) gramer

Q208.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
Sanchit stands by his friends through thick and thin .
(A) In winter and summer
(B) In favourable situations
(C) In crowded areas
(D) Under all circumstances

Q209.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
He ate the whole bunch of grapes under the nose of all of us.
(A) After much persuasion
(B) In full view of somebody
(C) Sharing equally
(D) Secretly

Q210.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
He is so stingy that I have never seen him spending money on basic necessities.
(A) Wicked
(B) Extravagant
(C) Obnoxious
(D) Indecent

Q211.
Identify the ANTONYM of the following word in the given sentence.
Languid
The animated infantry was marching forward for another rehearsal.
(A) infantry
(B) rehearsal
(C) forward
(D) animated

Q212.
Select the correctly spelt sentence.
(A) The country’s GDP bloomed despite the ongoing war situation.
(B) The country’s GDP bloomed dispete the ongoing war situation.
(C) The country’s GDP bloomed despete the ongoing war sitution
(D) The country’s GDP bloomed dispite the ongoing war situation.

Q213.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
We all should respect each other.
(A) every other
(B) all other
(C) one another
(D) all of us

Q214.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Fifty rupees feels too much for such a pen.
(A) looks
(B) minds
(C) price
(D) seems

Q215.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Extremely beautiful, elaborate or impressive
(A) Proficient
(B) Magnificent
(C) Transient
(D) Deficient

Q216.
In a ∆PQR and ∆ ABC, ∠P = ∠A and AC = PR. Which of the following conditions is true
for triangle PQR and ABC to be congruent?
(A) AB = PQ by SSS
(B) AB = PQ by SAS
(C) BC = QR by ASS
(D) ∠Q = ∠B by AAA

Q217.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
To tell the nature of a disease by its symptoms.
(A) Design
(B) Diagnosis
(C) Decisive
(D) Dosage

Q218.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who believes that God does not exist
(A) Atheist
(B) Fanatic
(C) Epicurean
(D) Hedonistic

Q219.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who does not eat any animal product
(A) Vegetarian
(B) Veggie
(C) Vegan
(D) Non-vegetarian

Q220.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word from the given sentence.
Gandhiji considared untouchability to be one of India’s major social ills.
(A) social
(B) major
(C) considared
(D) untouchability

Q221.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The capacity for being useful for some purpose.
(A) Gain
(B) Utility
(C) Desirability
(D) Aid

Q222.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Face the music
(A) To work every possible way to succeed
(B) To accept punishment for some mistake which you have done
(C) To be cheated by someone you trust
(D) To have the problems with money

Q223.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
I like all games instead of cricket.
(A) rather
(B) exclude
(C) object
(D) except

Q224.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Very attractive and easy to feel love for
(A) Flamboyant
(B) Adorable
(C) Mysterious
(D) Laudable

Q225.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given word.
Trousseau
(A) Being true to oneself
(B) The clothes, linen, and other belongings collected by a bride for her marriage
(C) A large cabinet full of expensive clothes
(D) Single leg side of a trouser

Q226.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Get your act together
(A) To ruin one’s plans
(B) To organise yourself so that you can do something properly
(C) To get the conversation going
(D) To understand something complicated

Q227.
Which of the following techniques has been used by the author of the passage to
convey the message?
(A) Examples and anecdotes
(B) Factual and chronological account
(C) Humour and exaggeration
(D) Parody and mimicry

Q228.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
To have a strong emotional effect on.
(A) To forfeit
(B) To overwhelm
(C) To smother
(D) To yield

Q229.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Keep a straight face
(A) Become very confused
(B) Get on extremely well with someone
(C) Not laugh or change your expression even though you want to laugh
(D) Make more of an effort

Q230.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
The company had some initial problems, but now it is ________.
(A) flying like a rock
(B) flying the nest
(C) flying a kite
(D) flying high

Q231.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
It is beyond my cognative capacity to solve the mathematical problems.
(A) problems
(B) cognative
(C) mathematical
(D) capacity

Q232.
Select the most appropriate one-word substitution of the given group of words.
A state of intense happiness and self-confidence.
(A) Euphoria
(B) Intoxication
(C) Touché
(D) Oblivion

Q233.
Select the most appropriate phrasal verb to fill in the blank.
It took seven years for Harish to ________________ his migraine.
(A) shake down
(B) shake up
(C) shake out
(D) shake off

Q234.
Select the most appropriate phrasal verb to fill in the blank.
Though Pradeep _____________ for Jamaica, he landed up in Nigeria.
(A) set aside
(B) set about
(C) set out
(D) set up

Q235.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
Technology has become a part and parcel of modern lifestyle.
(A) an obstacle
(B) a myth
(C) a useless part
(D) an integral part

Q236.
Select the most appropriate one-word substitution of the given group of words.
A person engaged in or trained for spaceflight.
(A) Astute
(B) Astronomer
(C) Astronaut
(D) Atrocious

Q237.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
I think we should ________ before buying this car.
(A) eat like a horse
(B) hold our horses
(C) stop to change horses
(D) get off our high horse

Q238.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given phrase.
One who goes from place to place, begging
(A) Misogamist
(B) Malleable
(C) Meticulous
(D) Mendicant

Q239.
Identify the main theme of the passage.
(A) The role of education in combating misinformation.
(B) The dangers of spreading false information on social media.
(C) The significance of propaganda and misinformation.
(D) The benefits of social media for communication.

Q240.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who settles in another country
(A) Resident
(B) Immigrant
(C) Traveller
(D) Refugee

Q241.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Something of monstrous size or power
(A) Bulk
(B) Amazon
(C) Heavyweight
(D) Behemoth

Q242.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The study of the human mind
(A) Psychology
(B) Microbiology
(C) Epidemiology
(D) Anthropology

Q243.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
An act of exchanging information
(A) Collaboration
(B) Communication
(C) Touch
(D) Hold

Q244.
Which of the following would be the most appropriate title for this passage?
(A) The Joys and Sorrows of Social Media
(B) The Benefits of Social Media
(C) The Dark Side of Social Media
(D) Mastering the Art of Social Media

Q245.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Bite the bullet
(A) Decide to do what is good
(B) To bite something very hard
(C) Decide to do the inevitable which you were avoiding
(D) Decide to take the easier way out

Q246.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Minimum people needed for a meeting
(A) Forum
(B) Quorum
(C) Addendum
(D) Decorum

Q247.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Study of science of insects
(A) Entomology
(B) Anthropology
(C) Microbiology
(D) Ecology

Q248.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The compulsion to tell lies
(A) Pyromania
(B) Nymphomania
(C) Megalomania
(D) Mythomania

Q249.
Select the most appropriate phrasal verb to fill in the blank.
Arunima _______________ a lot during her vacation time.
(A) gets on
(B) gets after
(C) gets about
(D) gets along

Q250.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Lasting for a very short time
(A) Eternal
(B) Ephemeral
(C) Blasphemy
(D) Chronology

Q251.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Open your heart
(A) Immediately think of something
(B) Share your deepest feelings
(C) Feel relieved because the stress is removed
(D) Could do something very easily

Q252.
Select the correct spelling of the incorrectly spelt word.
Diplomats believe that buraucratic delays are inevitable.
(A) inivitable
(B) burocratic
(C) beleave
(D) bureaucratic

Q253.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To hit the nail on the head
(A) To hit something accurately
(B) To be indecisive
(C) To miss an opportunity
(D) To express an idea with great precision

Q254.
According to the author of the passage, who among the following is NOT responsible
for the spread of stupidity?
(A) Politicians
(B) Education system
(C) Individuals
(D) Children

Q255.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Centre of public attention
(A) Ambiguity
(B) Obscurity
(C) Fuzziness
(D) Limelight

Q256.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
To criticise someone severely
(A) Rate
(B) Remonstrate
(C) Chastise
(D) Scoff

Q257.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined word.
He uses one of the finest ingredients in his cooking.
(A) Components
(B) Mixtures
(C) Culinary
(D) Preparations

Q258.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM for the highlighted word.
The malice he developed for all caused a lot of damage.
(A) avarice
(B) grace
(C) oppression
(D) sympathy

Q259.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A place where coins are made
(A) Trough
(B) Post Office
(C) Grove
(D) Mint

Q260.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who eats too much
(A) Glutton
(B) Garrulous
(C) Greedy
(D) Gullible

Q261.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Huge fire for celebration
(A) Campaign
(B) Bonfire
(C) Agenda
(D) Crossfire

Q262.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined word.
She has become a familiar figure in the world of politics.
(A) Known
(B) Legend
(C) Elevated
(D) Fancy

Q263.
Choose the correct spelling of the underlined word in the given sentence.
He has won the medal for the twelth time.
(A) Twellth
(B) Twwelfth
(C) Twelfth
(D) Tweltth

Q264.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
Doctors are raising hue and cry against the RTH bill.
(A) Enquire
(B) Protest
(C) Postpone
(D) Abandon

Q265.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
The best of both worlds
(A) Good things come after bad things
(B) An ideal situation
(C) Better to show than tell
(D) Make people comfortable

Q266.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Happening repeatedly
(A) Recuperate
(B) Recurrent
(C) Rapport
(D) Regression

Q267.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Hear someone out
(A) Let someone complete what they are saying
(B) Hear from far away
(C) Dismiss someone from listening to you
(D) Keep someone out

Q268.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
I was going to mention it, but it ________.
(A) brought to mind
(B) changed my mind
(C) bore in mind
(D) slipped my mind

Q269.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM for the highlighted word.
The negligent attitude of the cops was criticised.
(A) attentive
(B) reluctant
(C) amplify
(D) bored

Q270.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
Improved rail transport is essential for business.
(A) Recommended
(B) Trivial
(C) Crucial
(D) Technical

Q271.
What is the main focus of the passage?
(A) The complexities and challenges of cognitive processes.
(B) The mysteries of the human mind.
(C) The nature of creativity, its benefits and challenges.
(D) The nature of fancy and imagination.

Q272.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Burn one’s bridges
(A) Working very hard
(B) Impossible to return to an earlier state
(C) Having an overnight success
(D) Attack on one’s enemy

Q273.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Fear of water
(A) Hydrophobia
(B) Bibliophobia
(C) Microphobia
(D) Botanophobia

Q274.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Build castles in the air
(A) To make useless efforts
(B) To talk pointlessly
(C) To make imaginary schemes
(D) To build a palatial house

Q275.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined word.
Ram was abandoned by his parents at a very early age.
(A) Loved
(B) Left
(C) Hated
(D) Disgraced

Q276.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Boil the ocean
(A) Something very big
(B) Something which gets hot gradually
(C) Try to do something impossible
(D) To make someone very angry

Q277.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Part and parcel
(A) Passing blame to someone else
(B) Agreement with someone
(C) A payment system for parcels
(D) Basic or essential element

Q278.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Study of coins
(A) Philately
(B) Antiquary
(C) Numismatics
(D) Apothecary

Q279.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Fit as a fiddle
(A) To be extremely excited and energetic
(B) To be in good health
(C) Something is perfect
(D) A good and useful invention

Q280.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Pull yourself together
(A) Feel agitated
(B) Encourage the rich
(C) Calm down after an upsetting incident
(D) Discourage the orphans

Q281.
Find the area of a rhombus if the perimeter of the rhombus is 52 cm, and one of its
diagonals is 10 cm long.
(A) 120 cm2
(B) 164 cm2
(C) 160 cm2
(D) 144 cm2

Q282.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Left out in the cold
(A) To serve stale and cold food
(B) To leave in hurry
(C) To bear extreme weather condition
(D) To be ignored

Q283.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM for the highlighted word.
They drank some spurious drink and fainted.
(A) curious
(B) artificial
(C) nefarious
(D) genuine

Q284.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Crack someone up
(A) To criticise someone
(B) To force someone to commit a mistake
(C) To make someone angry
(D) To make someone laugh

Q285.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Step up to the plate
(A) Think about a crisis
(B) Plan for better performance
(C) Implement a plan
(D) Take control of a situation

Q286.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To burn the midnight oil
(A) To waste time
(B) To stay up late working or studying
(C) To overthink
(D) To be relaxed and calm

Q287.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Bite your tongue
(A) To scold someone verbally
(B) To drink very heavily
(C) To avoid saying something
(D) To have something explored

Q288.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
A snowball effect
(A) An accelerating growth of magnitude
(B) Trick someone completely
(C) Cold and uncomfortable
(D) Slow movement

Q289.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Bend over backwards
(A) Working hard to try to impress
(B) Working slowly and lazily
(C) Going backward
(D) Using wrongful means

Q290.
What is the theme of the passage?
(A) The dangers of spending too much time online.
(B) The importance of social media for businesses.
(C) The positive and negative effects of social media.
(D) The history of social media.

Q291.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
What a small world!
(A) The world is great.
(B) What a beautiful place!
(C) The world is a village.
(D) What a coincidence!

Q292.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Spill the beans
(A) To make anything visible
(B) To reveal secret information
(C) To ruin someone’s plan
(D) To talk randomly

Q293.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
An arm and a leg
(A) To ask for too much
(B) A large amount of money
(C) Everything is ready
(D) To be lost and bewildered

Q294.
Select an appropriate title for the passage.
(A) The Power of Creativity
(B) The Complexities of Human Cognition
(C) The History of the Human Mind
(D) The Role of the Human Mind in Promoting Positive Change

Q295.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Fit as a fiddle
(A) At the last moment
(B) To ignore what someone is saying
(C) To betray a close person
(D) In good health

Q296.
Which of the following most accurately states the central idea of the passage?
(A) United Nations
(B) Pollution free planet
(C) Population explosion
(D) Economic growth

Q297.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
This is not ______ exhaustive list of words.
(A) many
(B) an
(C) a
(D) No word required

Q298.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Keep count of
(A) To remind of a deadline
(B) To act more politely
(C) To remember a total
(D) To accept an invitation

Q299.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Being courteous _______ costs you nothing.
(A) No article required
(B) an
(C) a
(D) the

Q300.
What could be a suitable title for the passage?
(A) The Evils of Social Media
(B) The Benefits of Stupidity
(C) The Joy of Living in a World of Ignorance
(D) The Importance of Critical Thinking

Q301.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined word.
Saurabh imitates his boss perfectly.
(A) Admires
(B) Worships
(C) Copies
(D) Hates

Q302.
Which of the following most accurately states the central idea of the passage?
(A) Greenhouse gases
(B) Pollution
(C) Climate policy for health
(D) Fossil fuels

Q303.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM for the highlighted word.
She has a penchant for art and craft.
(A) anxiety
(B) hatred
(C) fear
(D) joy

Q304.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
A plum job
(A) An easy and pleasant job
(B) A rare job
(C) A difficult job
(D) A job involving extensive travelling

Q305.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Spill the beans
(A) Sound familiar
(B) Fail to make an impact
(C) To be very expensive
(D) Give away a secret

Q306.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Come what may
(A) To be among the latest
(B) No matter what happens
(C) To get frightened
(D) Meeting someone

Q307.
Which of the following most accurately states the central idea of the passage?
(A) Pollution
(B) Mountain ecosystem
(C) Biodegradation
(D) Climate change

Q308.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined word.
We shouldn’t blame or envy anyone.
(A) Love
(B) Jealousy
(C) Curse
(D) Reap

Q309.
What is the term used in the passage for globally shared digital things?
(A) Digital commons
(B) Digital information
(C) Digital resources
(D) Digital world

Q310.
Which of the following factors can drive creativity?
(A) Self-doubt and insecurity
(B) Curiosity and passion
(C) Fancy and imagination
(D) External pressures and constraints

Q311.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Break a leg
(A) To hurt someone
(B) To avoid someone
(C) To wish someone good luck
(D) To love someone

Q312.
Select the most appropriate title to the given passage.
(A) Research Grants in Organisations
(B) Learn, Clone and Pass
(C) Most Effective Colleagues
(D) Different Topics

Q313.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Apple of discord
(A) Practical
(B) Distant love
(C) Bone of contention
(D) Centre of attraction

Q314.
The area of a sector of a circle of radius 8 cm, formed by an arc of length 4.6 cm, is
(A) 6.3 cm2
(B) 9.2 cm2
(C) 18.4 cm2
(D) 12.6 cm2

Q315.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined word.
She has no desire for money.
(A) Disgust
(B) Despise
(C) Care
(D) Wish

Q316.
Identify the most suitable title for the given passage.
(A) Knowledge Explosion
(B) Customised Hand
(C) Shared Information
(D) Digital Globalisation

Q317.
The area of an equilateral triangle is 173.2 cm2. Its side will be __________.
(A) 20 cm
(B) 22 cm
(C) 17.32 cm
(D) 21.32 cm

Q318.
Which of the following represents the structure of the passage?
(A) Chronological
(B) Definition
(C) Compare and contrast
(D) Cause-effect

Q319.
Select the most suitable word from the passage which means ‘scattered’.
(A) Collaborative
(B) Shared
(C) Customised
(D) Dispersed

Q320.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Spontaneous
(A) Attractive
(B) Exhaustive
(C) Instinctive
(D) Acquisitive

Q321.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Justifiable
(A) Indefensible
(B) Neutral
(C) Maintainable
(D) Reasonable

Q322.
What is the ANTONYM of the word ‘perfect’, as used in the passage?
(A) Troublesome
(B) Limited
(C) Unsatisfactory
(D) Laughable

Q323.
Select the most suitable structure for the above passage.
(A) Chronological
(B) Cause and Effect
(C) Pragmatic
(D) Compare and contrast

Q324.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Extravagance
(A) Simplicity
(B) Love
(C) Fortune
(D) Self- indulgence

Q325.
Which of the following represents the structure of the passage?
(A) Chronology
(B) Critique
(C) Problem-solution
(D) Definition

Q326.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Diabolical
(A) Malicious
(B) Sycophant
(C) Celestial
(D) Sophisticated

Q327.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Redemption
(A) Salvation
(B) Blasphemy
(C) Corrugation
(D) Conjunction

Q328.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Reminiscence
(A) Harsh
(B) Remembrance
(C) Benevolence
(D) Oblivion

Q329.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Unequivocal
(A) Complete
(B) Articulate
(C) Unambiguous
(D) Doubted

Q330.
What is the ANTONYM for the word ‘intervention’, from the passage?
(A) Specific
(B) Evidence
(C) Non-involvement
(D) Data

Q331.
What is the ANTONYM of the word ‘accurate’, " as used in the passage?
(A) Correct
(B) Inexact
(C) Precise
(D) Reliable

Q332.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Catastrophic
(A) Calamity
(B) Fortuitous
(C) Fiasco
(D) Sabotage

Q333.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) outnumbering
(B) outsourcing
(C) outlasting
(D) outreaching

Q334.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Inquisitive
(A) Innocent
(B) Indifferent
(C) Curious
(D) Studious

Q335.
Which of the following represents the structure of the passage?
(A) Definition
(B) Cause-effect
(C) Critique
(D) Chronology

Q336.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) clarifications
(B) predictions
(C) directions
(D) decisions

Q337.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Vulnerable
(A) Susceptible
(B) Guarded
(C) Amiable
(D) Delectable

Q338.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Demolish
(A) Inferior
(B) Annihilate
(C) Unmethodical
(D) Fabricate

Q339.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) obstacles
(B) interferences
(C) conditions
(D) connections

Q340.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) psychology
(B) human behaviour
(C) instinct
(D) motivation

Q341.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Effective
(A) Deniable
(B) Harmonious
(C) Fruitless
(D) Courteous

Q342.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Rehabilitate
(A) Reinstall
(B) Develop
(C) Absolve
(D) Decline

Q343.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Inquisitive
(A) Careful
(B) Dull
(C) Uninterested
(D) Indolent

Q344.
Which of the following is NOT a globally shared digital resource?
(A) Knowledge
(B) Design
(C) Automobile
(D) Software

Q345.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Vagrancy
(A) Vagueness
(B) Exploration
(C) Vagabond
(D) Fragrance

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the question that follows. We started our research into organisational and personal excellence by studying a slightly different topic. We figured that if we could learn why certain people were more effective than others, then we could learn exactly what they did, clone it and pass it on to others. We asked people to identify who they thought were their most effective colleagues. In fact, over the past twenty-five years, we have asked over twenty thousand people to identify the individuals in their organisations who could really get things done. We wanted to find those who were not just influential but who were far more influential than the rest. SubQuestion No : 46
Q346.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) willingly
(B) thoroughly
(C) perfectly
(D) thoughtfully

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the question that follows. We started our research into organisational and personal excellence by studying a slightly different topic. We figured that if we could learn why certain people were more effective than others, then we could learn exactly what they did, clone it and pass it on to others. We asked people to identify who they thought were their most effective colleagues. In fact, over the past twenty-five years, we have asked over twenty thousand people to identify the individuals in their organisations who could really get things done. We wanted to find those who were not just influential but who were far more influential than the rest. SubQuestion No : 46
Q347.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) for example
(B) of course
(C) after all
(D) in addition

Q348.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Haphazard
(A) Random
(B) Sociable
(C) Aggressive
(D) Confident

Q349.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) were known
(B) have knowing
(C) had know
(D) are known

Q350.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Magnificent
(A) Impressive
(B) Peaceful
(C) Quiet
(D) Modest

Q351.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Dreadful
(A) Feeble
(B) Terrible
(C) Auspicious
(D) Propitious

Q352.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Apathy
(A) Interruption
(B) Ignorance
(C) Interest
(D) Sincerity

Q353.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Transparent
(A) Crossover
(B) Linger
(C) Opaque
(D) Oppress

Q354.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Hideous
(A) Attractive
(B) Restorative
(C) Lament
(D) Healthful

Q355.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Superb
(A) Infallible
(B) Incorrigible
(C) Inferior
(D) Splendid

Q356.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Bombastic
(A) Essential
(B) Sarcastic
(C) Plain
(D) Rhythmic

Q357.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Desolate
(A) Fortunate
(B) Sturdy
(C) Depressive
(D) Hopeful

Q358.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) dissolves
(B) stops
(C) malfunctions
(D) functions

Q359.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Benevolent
(A) Generous
(B) Innocent
(C) Cruel
(D) Wicked

Q360.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) disorderly
(B) frequent
(C) ghastly
(D) delusional

Q361.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Defunct
(A) Stoicism
(B) Extant
(C) Convoluted
(D) Redundant

Q362.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Rejoinder
(A) Expedite
(B) Reply
(C) Ordinary
(D) Request

Q363.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Beneficent
(A) Cruel
(B) Lethargic
(C) Soft
(D) Friendly

Q364.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) baffled
(B) overthrown
(C) encouraged
(D) crushed

Q365.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) Consequently
(B) Because
(C) Formerly
(D) However

Q366.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Profane
(A) Perverse
(B) Immaterial
(C) Divine
(D) Barnyard

Q367.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) great
(B) acclaimed
(C) renowned
(D) pre-eminent

Q368.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Leniency
(A) Penalty
(B) Favour
(C) Sternness
(D) Discard

Q369.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Aggravate
(A) Annoy
(B) Mitigate
(C) Enhance
(D) Satisfy

Q370.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank number 4.
(A) Declared
(B) Restricted
(C) Generalized
(D) Classified

Q371.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Faithful
(A) Daring
(B) Unfaithful
(C) Cheerful
(D) Loyal

Q372.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Major
(A) Diligent
(B) Shallow
(C) Considerable
(D) Creviced

Q373.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Decline
(A) Escape
(B) Ascend
(C) Demonstrate
(D) Traverse

Q374.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Resolute
(A) Serious
(B) Wavering
(C) Steadfast
(D) Brave

Q375.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Placid
(A) Turbulent
(B) Pensive
(C) Pristine
(D) Destined

Q376.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Denounce
(A) Praise
(B) Relieve
(C) Criticise
(D) Dainty

Q377.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Malice
(A) Torsion
(B) Haughtiness
(C) Kindness
(D) Tremor

Q378.
What is the ANTONYM for the word ‘pervasive’ from the passage?
(A) Clear
(B) Emotional
(C) Limited
(D) Offensive

PASSAGE: Read the given passage carefully and answer the questions that follow. Throughout history, the intricacies of the human mind have been the subject of fascination and inquiry. From ancient philosophers to modern-day neuroscientists, the workings of the brain have been studied and analysed in an attempt to unravel its mysteries. However, despite centuries of research, much remains unknown about the complexities of human cognition and consciousness. One of the most fascinating aspects of the human mind is its ability to create and imagine. The human mind has the capacity to conceptualise and bring into being ideas that were previously unknown or unimaginable, from artistic expression to scientific discovery. The process of creativity has captured the attention of scholars and laypeople alike and is both enigmatic and awe-inspiring. There have been many theories proposed to explain the process of creativity. Some suggest that it is a purely subconscious process, while others argue that creativity is a result of conscious effort and intentional problem-solving. Still others suggest that creativity arises from a combination of conscious and subconscious processes. Despite the ongoing debate over the nature of creativity, one thing is clear: it is a multifaceted and complex phenomenon. Creativity can manifest in a wide range of human activities, from the creation of art and literature to the development of scientific theories and inventions. It can occur in both individual and collective contexts and can be driven by a variety of factors such as curiosity, passion, or the desire for recognition. Creativity also has the potential to bring about positive change in the world. Throughout history, creative individuals and groups have used their talents to address social, political, and environmental challenges, often inspiring others to take action and make a difference. From the abolitionist movement to the civil rights movement to the environmental movement, creativity has played a crucial role in promoting social justice and positive change. Despite the many benefits of creativity, it is not without its challenges. The process of creative expression can be fraught with obstacles, from self-doubt and insecurity to external pressures and constraints. Moreover, not all creative ideas are successful or well-received, and many artists and innovators face re
Q379.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) behaviour
(B) goal
(C) incentive
(D) motivation

PASSAGE: Read the given passage carefully and answer the questions that follow. Throughout history, the intricacies of the human mind have been the subject of fascination and inquiry. From ancient philosophers to modern-day neuroscientists, the workings of the brain have been studied and analysed in an attempt to unravel its mysteries. However, despite centuries of research, much remains unknown about the complexities of human cognition and consciousness. One of the most fascinating aspects of the human mind is its ability to create and imagine. The human mind has the capacity to conceptualise and bring into being ideas that were previously unknown or unimaginable, from artistic expression to scientific discovery. The process of creativity has captured the attention of scholars and laypeople alike and is both enigmatic and awe-inspiring. There have been many theories proposed to explain the process of creativity. Some suggest that it is a purely subconscious process, while others argue that creativity is a result of conscious effort and intentional problem-solving. Still others suggest that creativity arises from a combination of conscious and subconscious processes. Despite the ongoing debate over the nature of creativity, one thing is clear: it is a multifaceted and complex phenomenon. Creativity can manifest in a wide range of human activities, from the creation of art and literature to the development of scientific theories and inventions. It can occur in both individual and collective contexts and can be driven by a variety of factors such as curiosity, passion, or the desire for recognition. Creativity also has the potential to bring about positive change in the world. Throughout history, creative individuals and groups have used their talents to address social, political, and environmental challenges, often inspiring others to take action and make a difference. From the abolitionist movement to the civil rights movement to the environmental movement, creativity has played a crucial role in promoting social justice and positive change. Despite the many benefits of creativity, it is not without its challenges. The process of creative expression can be fraught with obstacles, from self-doubt and insecurity to external pressures and constraints. Moreover, not all creative ideas are successful or well-received, and many artists and innovators face re
Q380.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) achievements
(B) motivation
(C) desire
(D) grow

Q381.
What is the ANTONYM for the word ‘diversity’ from the passage?
(A) Block
(B) Dilemma
(C) Uniformity
(D) Heritage

Q382.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Captivate
(A) Study
(B) Allure
(C) Envelope
(D) Arrest

Q383.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Authentic
(A) Genuine
(B) Fake
(C) Basic
(D) Different

Q384.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) finite
(B) similar
(C) popular
(D) distinctive

Q385.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Brave
(A) Elegant
(B) Cordial
(C) Cowardly
(D) Courageous

Q386.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) prescribed
(B) mandatory
(C) illicit
(D) legitimate

Q387.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) belonged
(B) belonging
(C) belong
(D) belongs

Q388.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Ethical
(A) Discord
(B) Joyous
(C) Mourning
(D) Immoral

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. Climate policy must now put health at the centre and promote climate change mitigation policies that bring health benefits simultaneously. Health-focused climate policy would help bring about a planet that has cleaner air, more abundant and safer freshwater and food, more effective and fairer health and social protection systems and, as a result, healthier people. Investment in clean energy will yield health gains that repay those investments twice over. There are proven interventions able to reduce emissions of short-lived climate pollutants, for instance applying higher standards for vehicle emissions, which have been calculated to save approximately 2.4 million lives per year, through improved air quality and reduce global warming by about 0.5°C by 2050. The cost of renewable sources of energy has decreased significantly in the last few years, and solar energy is now cheaper than coal or gas in most major economies. SubQuestion No : 46
Q389.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) gauged
(B) rated
(C) estimated
(D) evaluated

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. Climate policy must now put health at the centre and promote climate change mitigation policies that bring health benefits simultaneously. Health-focused climate policy would help bring about a planet that has cleaner air, more abundant and safer freshwater and food, more effective and fairer health and social protection systems and, as a result, healthier people. Investment in clean energy will yield health gains that repay those investments twice over. There are proven interventions able to reduce emissions of short-lived climate pollutants, for instance applying higher standards for vehicle emissions, which have been calculated to save approximately 2.4 million lives per year, through improved air quality and reduce global warming by about 0.5°C by 2050. The cost of renewable sources of energy has decreased significantly in the last few years, and solar energy is now cheaper than coal or gas in most major economies. SubQuestion No : 46
Q390.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) ancient
(B) primitive
(C) advanced
(D) early

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. Climate policy must now put health at the centre and promote climate change mitigation policies that bring health benefits simultaneously. Health-focused climate policy would help bring about a planet that has cleaner air, more abundant and safer freshwater and food, more effective and fairer health and social protection systems and, as a result, healthier people. Investment in clean energy will yield health gains that repay those investments twice over. There are proven interventions able to reduce emissions of short-lived climate pollutants, for instance applying higher standards for vehicle emissions, which have been calculated to save approximately 2.4 million lives per year, through improved air quality and reduce global warming by about 0.5°C by 2050. The cost of renewable sources of energy has decreased significantly in the last few years, and solar energy is now cheaper than coal or gas in most major economies. SubQuestion No : 46
Q391.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) imprint
(B) depict
(C) require
(D) determine

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. Climate policy must now put health at the centre and promote climate change mitigation policies that bring health benefits simultaneously. Health-focused climate policy would help bring about a planet that has cleaner air, more abundant and safer freshwater and food, more effective and fairer health and social protection systems and, as a result, healthier people. Investment in clean energy will yield health gains that repay those investments twice over. There are proven interventions able to reduce emissions of short-lived climate pollutants, for instance applying higher standards for vehicle emissions, which have been calculated to save approximately 2.4 million lives per year, through improved air quality and reduce global warming by about 0.5°C by 2050. The cost of renewable sources of energy has decreased significantly in the last few years, and solar energy is now cheaper than coal or gas in most major economies. SubQuestion No : 46
Q392.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) meaning
(B) causes
(C) ways
(D) determinants

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. Climate policy must now put health at the centre and promote climate change mitigation policies that bring health benefits simultaneously. Health-focused climate policy would help bring about a planet that has cleaner air, more abundant and safer freshwater and food, more effective and fairer health and social protection systems and, as a result, healthier people. Investment in clean energy will yield health gains that repay those investments twice over. There are proven interventions able to reduce emissions of short-lived climate pollutants, for instance applying higher standards for vehicle emissions, which have been calculated to save approximately 2.4 million lives per year, through improved air quality and reduce global warming by about 0.5°C by 2050. The cost of renewable sources of energy has decreased significantly in the last few years, and solar energy is now cheaper than coal or gas in most major economies. SubQuestion No : 46
Q393.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) accepted
(B) rejected
(C) investigated
(D) aspired

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. Climate policy must now put health at the centre and promote climate change mitigation policies that bring health benefits simultaneously. Health-focused climate policy would help bring about a planet that has cleaner air, more abundant and safer freshwater and food, more effective and fairer health and social protection systems and, as a result, healthier people. Investment in clean energy will yield health gains that repay those investments twice over. There are proven interventions able to reduce emissions of short-lived climate pollutants, for instance applying higher standards for vehicle emissions, which have been calculated to save approximately 2.4 million lives per year, through improved air quality and reduce global warming by about 0.5°C by 2050. The cost of renewable sources of energy has decreased significantly in the last few years, and solar energy is now cheaper than coal or gas in most major economies. SubQuestion No : 46
Q394.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) late
(B) ancient
(C) indigenous
(D) organic

Q395.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Specific
(A) Topple
(B) Lawful
(C) Random
(D) Stroll

Q396.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Contempt
(A) Mockery
(B) Deny
(C) Regard
(D) Immoral

Q397.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) suitably
(B) nearly
(C) merrily
(D) usually

Q398.
What is the ANTONYM for the word ‘promote’, from the passage?
(A) Conduct
(B) Obstruct
(C) Invade
(D) Exclude

Q399.
Which is the best description of the tone of the passage?
(A) Technical
(B) Sarcastic
(C) Dogmatic
(D) Humanistic

Q400.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Calm
(A) Turbulent
(B) Shocked
(C) Variable
(D) Confused

Q401.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Sluggish
(A) Abnormal
(B) Utterly
(C) Swift
(D) Slow

Q402.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Together
(A) Apart
(B) United
(C) Freight
(D) Engulf

Q403.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Abandon
(A) Perish
(B) Desert
(C) Prolong
(D) Retain

Q404.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) vigour
(B) spirited
(C) vibrant
(D) lavish

Q405.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) spend
(B) cherish
(C) comply
(D) propagate

Q406.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) reaches
(B) lengths
(C) amounts
(D) spans

Q407.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) of the
(B) by the
(C) in the
(D) from the

Q408.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) perhaps
(B) although
(C) maybe
(D) though

Q409.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Behold
(A) Look
(B) Burden
(C) Fortunate
(D) Predict

Q410.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Credit
(A) Litigate
(B) Install
(C) Debit
(D) Impute

Q411.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) separate
(B) derive
(C) revive
(D) choose

Q412.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Apex
(A) Pinnacle
(B) Bottom
(C) Farthest
(D) Watchful

Q413.
Which is the best description of the tone of the passage?
(A) Laudatory
(B) Emotional
(C) Biased
(D) Humanistic

PASSAGE: Read the given passage carefully and answer the questions that follow. As a society, we have come a long way in terms of progress and development. We have eradicated diseases, explored space, and created technological wonders that were once thought impossible. Yet, there is still one issue that continues to plague us: stupidity. Yes, stupidity. The thing that seems to be contagious and has been spreading faster than the common cold. It's everywhere you look - on social media, in politics, in the workplace. You can't escape it. It's as if we've all collectively decided that intelligence and common sense are no longer important. Why bother using your brain when you can just rely on your gut feelings and conspiracy theories? Take politics, for example. It used to be that politicians were expected to be knowledgeable and well-informed about the issues they were dealing with. Now, it seems that all you need is a catchy slogan and some empty promises to win an election. And don't even get me started on social media. It's a breeding ground for stupidity. People will believe anything they read as long as it confirms their preconceived biases. And don't even think about trying to present them with actual facts and evidence. That's just a waste of time. But it's not just individuals who are to blame for this epidemic of stupidity. Our education system is failing us as well. We're teaching our kids how to pass tests instead of how to think critically and solve problems. It's no wonder we have a generation of adults who can't even find their way around a basic math problem. Of course, there are some who would argue that stupidity is just a different way of thinking. That it's a valid perspective that deserves to be respected. To those people, I say this: if you want to be stupid, go ahead. Just don't expect the rest of us to respect your opinions when they're based on nothing but ignorance and misinformation. It's time for us to take a stand against stupidity. We need to start valuing intelligence and critical thinking again. We need to hold our leaders accountable for their actions and demand that they be knowledgeable and well-informed. We need to teach our children how to think, not just how to memorise. It won't be easy, but it's a fight worth fighting. Because if we don't, we'll be stuck in a world where stupidity reigns supreme, and there's no telli
Q414.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) extort
(B) mock
(C) conceal
(D) estimate

PASSAGE: Read the given passage carefully and answer the questions that follow. As a society, we have come a long way in terms of progress and development. We have eradicated diseases, explored space, and created technological wonders that were once thought impossible. Yet, there is still one issue that continues to plague us: stupidity. Yes, stupidity. The thing that seems to be contagious and has been spreading faster than the common cold. It's everywhere you look - on social media, in politics, in the workplace. You can't escape it. It's as if we've all collectively decided that intelligence and common sense are no longer important. Why bother using your brain when you can just rely on your gut feelings and conspiracy theories? Take politics, for example. It used to be that politicians were expected to be knowledgeable and well-informed about the issues they were dealing with. Now, it seems that all you need is a catchy slogan and some empty promises to win an election. And don't even get me started on social media. It's a breeding ground for stupidity. People will believe anything they read as long as it confirms their preconceived biases. And don't even think about trying to present them with actual facts and evidence. That's just a waste of time. But it's not just individuals who are to blame for this epidemic of stupidity. Our education system is failing us as well. We're teaching our kids how to pass tests instead of how to think critically and solve problems. It's no wonder we have a generation of adults who can't even find their way around a basic math problem. Of course, there are some who would argue that stupidity is just a different way of thinking. That it's a valid perspective that deserves to be respected. To those people, I say this: if you want to be stupid, go ahead. Just don't expect the rest of us to respect your opinions when they're based on nothing but ignorance and misinformation. It's time for us to take a stand against stupidity. We need to start valuing intelligence and critical thinking again. We need to hold our leaders accountable for their actions and demand that they be knowledgeable and well-informed. We need to teach our children how to think, not just how to memorise. It won't be easy, but it's a fight worth fighting. Because if we don't, we'll be stuck in a world where stupidity reigns supreme, and there's no telli
Q415.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank number 5.
(A) Numerated
(B) Detailed
(C) Recorded
(D) Listed

Q416.
Which is the best description of the tone of the passage?
(A) Biased
(B) Cynical
(C) Technical
(D) Humanistic

Q417.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Cruise
(A) Bounce
(B) Fall
(C) Distance
(D) Voyage

Q418.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Fierce
(A) Lame
(B) Lavish
(C) Strange
(D) Furious

Q419.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Antique
(A) Ancient
(B) New
(C) Gothic
(D) Modern

PASSAGE: the extinct Bali, Caspian and Javan subspecies, and the living Malayan, Sumatran, South China, Indochinese, Bengal and Amur (or Siberian) subspecies. Of these six subspecies, AZA-accredited zoos currently manage three: Amur, Malayan, and Sumatran. The Smithsonian's National Zoo and Conservation Biology Institute is home to Sumatran and Amur tigers; Sumatran tigers are (5) ________ as Critically Endangered on the International Union for Conservation of Nature's Red List, and Amur tigers have been classified as Endangered. SubQuestion No : 41
Q420.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) systematic
(B) biased
(C) pathetic
(D) tragic

PASSAGE: the extinct Bali, Caspian and Javan subspecies, and the living Malayan, Sumatran, South China, Indochinese, Bengal and Amur (or Siberian) subspecies. Of these six subspecies, AZA-accredited zoos currently manage three: Amur, Malayan, and Sumatran. The Smithsonian's National Zoo and Conservation Biology Institute is home to Sumatran and Amur tigers; Sumatran tigers are (5) ________ as Critically Endangered on the International Union for Conservation of Nature's Red List, and Amur tigers have been classified as Endangered. SubQuestion No : 41
Q421.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) death
(B) anxiety
(C) deafness
(D) impairment

Q422.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Asset
(A) Mole
(B) Liability
(C) Wealth
(D) Refuge

Q423.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Vague
(A) Elegant
(B) Regal
(C) Definite
(D) Dwarf

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. What if globally designed products could radically change how we work, produce and consume? Several examples across continents show the way we are producing and consuming goods could be improved by relying on globally shared digital resources, such as design, knowledge and software. Imagine a prosthetic hand designed by geographically dispersed communities of scientists, designers and enthusiasts in a collaborative manner via the web. All knowledge and software related to the hand is shared globally as a digital commons. People from all over the world who are connected online and have access to local manufacturing machines (from 3D printing and CNC machines to low-tech crafts and tools) can, ideally with the help of an expert, manufacture a customised hand. This is the case of the Open Bionics project, which produces designs for robotic and bionic devices. There are no patent costs to pay for. Less transportation of materials is needed, since a considerable part of the manufacturing takes place locally; maintenance is easier, products are designed to last as long as possible, and costs are thus much lower. SubQuestion No : 46
Q424.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) support
(B) inspire
(C) trigger
(D) motivate

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. What if globally designed products could radically change how we work, produce and consume? Several examples across continents show the way we are producing and consuming goods could be improved by relying on globally shared digital resources, such as design, knowledge and software. Imagine a prosthetic hand designed by geographically dispersed communities of scientists, designers and enthusiasts in a collaborative manner via the web. All knowledge and software related to the hand is shared globally as a digital commons. People from all over the world who are connected online and have access to local manufacturing machines (from 3D printing and CNC machines to low-tech crafts and tools) can, ideally with the help of an expert, manufacture a customised hand. This is the case of the Open Bionics project, which produces designs for robotic and bionic devices. There are no patent costs to pay for. Less transportation of materials is needed, since a considerable part of the manufacturing takes place locally; maintenance is easier, products are designed to last as long as possible, and costs are thus much lower. SubQuestion No : 46
Q425.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) rise
(B) unfruitful
(C) decline
(D) upheaval

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. What if globally designed products could radically change how we work, produce and consume? Several examples across continents show the way we are producing and consuming goods could be improved by relying on globally shared digital resources, such as design, knowledge and software. Imagine a prosthetic hand designed by geographically dispersed communities of scientists, designers and enthusiasts in a collaborative manner via the web. All knowledge and software related to the hand is shared globally as a digital commons. People from all over the world who are connected online and have access to local manufacturing machines (from 3D printing and CNC machines to low-tech crafts and tools) can, ideally with the help of an expert, manufacture a customised hand. This is the case of the Open Bionics project, which produces designs for robotic and bionic devices. There are no patent costs to pay for. Less transportation of materials is needed, since a considerable part of the manufacturing takes place locally; maintenance is easier, products are designed to last as long as possible, and costs are thus much lower. SubQuestion No : 46
Q426.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) normal
(B) magical
(C) reliable
(D) idyllic

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. What if globally designed products could radically change how we work, produce and consume? Several examples across continents show the way we are producing and consuming goods could be improved by relying on globally shared digital resources, such as design, knowledge and software. Imagine a prosthetic hand designed by geographically dispersed communities of scientists, designers and enthusiasts in a collaborative manner via the web. All knowledge and software related to the hand is shared globally as a digital commons. People from all over the world who are connected online and have access to local manufacturing machines (from 3D printing and CNC machines to low-tech crafts and tools) can, ideally with the help of an expert, manufacture a customised hand. This is the case of the Open Bionics project, which produces designs for robotic and bionic devices. There are no patent costs to pay for. Less transportation of materials is needed, since a considerable part of the manufacturing takes place locally; maintenance is easier, products are designed to last as long as possible, and costs are thus much lower. SubQuestion No : 46
Q427.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) groomed
(B) refused
(C) provided
(D) agreed

Q428.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Abhor
(A) Occupy
(B) Despise
(C) Danger
(D) Love

Q429.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Robe
(A) Robbery
(B) Mishap
(C) Success
(D) Cloak

Q430.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Damp
(A) Misty
(B) Arid
(C) Tropical
(D) Soaked

Q431.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM for the word ‘fraught’.
(A) Tranquil
(B) Calm
(C) Beset
(D) Devoid

Q432.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank number 3.
(A) Rabbits
(B) Cats
(C) Elephants
(D) Dogs

Q433.
What is the ANTONYM for the word ‘priority’ from the passage?
(A) Factor
(B) Last
(C) Part
(D) Task

Q434.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) better
(B) later
(C) faster
(D) slower

Q435.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Site
(A) Lap
(B) Location
(C) Globe
(D) Pull

Q436.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Glad
(A) Keen
(B) Loyal
(C) Sad
(D) Pleased

Q437.
What is the ANTONYM for the word ‘migrate’ from the passage?
(A) Stay
(B) Run
(C) Die
(D) Assume

Q438.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank number 1.
(A) Long
(B) Small
(C) Blunt
(D) Sharp

Q439.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) by
(B) over
(C) of
(D) into

Q440.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank number 2.
(A) With
(B) Into
(C) About
(D) Along

Q441.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) vistas
(B) murk
(C) haze
(D) band

Q442.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Commission
(B) Comutter
(C) Committee
(D) Camouflage

Q443.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Interrogate
(B) Alienate
(C) Deserve
(D) Assasinate

Q444.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word
(A) Legitimate
(B) Exagerate
(C) Propagate
(D) Promulgate

Q445.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Click
(B) Caricature
(C) Cumbersome
(D) Cumolative

Q446.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Gllidder
(B) Airplane
(C) Helicopter
(D) Ladybug

Q447.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Ocassion
(B) Agreeable
(C) Formulae
(D) Waitress

Q448.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Adjacent
(B) Accomplish
(C) Agregate
(D) Allure

Q449.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Prefered
(B) Revered
(C) Answered
(D) Reference

Q450.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Puzzled
(B) Nasal
(C) Councel
(D) Embezzlement

Q451.
What is the tone of the author?
(A) Speculative
(B) Caustic
(C) Acerbic
(D) Belligerent

Q452.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Serene
(B) Triumph
(C) Comparsion
(D) Unveil

Q453.
What is the tone of the passage?
(A) Sarcastic
(B) Serious
(C) Melancholic
(D) Joyful

Q454.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Merriment
(B) Yearn
(C) Zenith
(D) Miniture

Q455.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Adjourn
(B) Addict
(C) Abdact
(D) Advise

Q456.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Isle
(B) Braed
(C) Achieve
(D) Amicable

Q457.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Bread
(B) Pasta
(C) Noodle
(D) Pitza
