==============================================================================
FILE      : SSC_CGL_Tier1_2023_EN.txt
SOURCE PDF: ssc_papers/merged/SSC_CGL_Tier1_2023_EN.pdf
SUBJECT   : English Comprehension
QUESTIONS : 324
==============================================================================

Q1.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below. While the first and the last sentences (S1
and S6) are in the correct order, the sentences in between are jumbled up and named
P, Q, R, S. Arrange the sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and
coherent paragraph.
(S1) Newspapers, especially of the popular variety, aim to do two things: to inform and
to entertain.
(P) Entertainment may be principally found in the centre pages of the newspaper in
some of the feature articles and in some local news stories.
(Q) The principal aim of the short news report on the front pages is to inform.
(R) Most newspapers are published daily, and the news reporters must make sure that
they have up-to-the minute news.
(S) In their news reports they will aim to create a sense of immediacy, to convey the
impression that they have ‘rushed’ the news to the reader and ‘that the information
contained is the very latest.’
(S6) Reporters also wish to create a sense of authenticity, that is, that their news is
accurate and genuine.
(A) Q, S, R, P
(B) R, P, S, Q
(C) S, R, P, Q
(D) P, Q, R, S

Q2.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. India has an upbeat vision of a liberal, nonviolent, relatively pluralistic democracy
with non-threatening global leadership.
B. Epics from mythologies like the Mahabharata and Ramayana are likened to classic
Greek works like the Odyssey and Iliad and between 1 and 1000 AD, India was lauded
as the ‘Golden Bird’ for its GDP, which was higher than China at the time.
C. Luminaries like Mahatma Gandhi and Rabindranath Tagore, as well as the arts of
literature, music, dance, the software industry, Ayurveda, etc., generate a staggering
array of soft power assets that highlight India's appeal to the world's population.
D. With Ashoka, Buddha, and Gandhi serving as the primary leaders, Indians are
known for their core values of respect, harmony, and fraternity.
(A) ACDB
(B) CBAD
(C) ABDC
(D) BCDA

Q3.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A.The 1995 World Summit for Social Development had also emphasised the pivotal
role of women in eradicating poverty and mending the social fabric.
B.Women are rational in approach, careful in handling situations and want to do things
as best as possible.
C.The Fourth World Conference of Women held in Beijing in September 1995 had
emphasised that no enduring solution of society’s most threatening social, economic
and political problems could be found without the participation and empowerment of
the women.
D.Today’s woman is a highly self-directed person, alive to the sense of her dignity and
the importance of her functions in the private domestic domain and the public domain
of the world of work.
(A) ABDC
(B) DBCA
(C) DBAC
(D) BCAD

Q4.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. Several times I have visited the narrow, dirty streets where the poor live, and I grow
hot and indignant to think that good people should be content to live in fine houses
and become strong and beautiful, while others are condemned to live in hideous,
sunless tenements and grow ugly, withered and cringing.
B. Dear little creatures, they crouch in my heart and haunt me with a constant sense of
pain.
C. The children who crowd these grimy alleys, half-clad and underfed, shrink away
from your outstretched hand as if from a blow.
D. In the country one sees only nature’s fair works, and one’s soul is not saddened by
the cruel struggle for mere existence that goes on in the crowded city.
(A) BACD
(B) ADBC
(C) CABD
(D) DACB

Q5.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. Through the development of technologies, telecommunications, transportation, and
other areas, globalisation has developed very quickly in the last few decades,
resulting in economic, social, political, and cultural integration on a global scale.
B. Although technology has had both positive and harmful effects on human life, its
negative repercussions must be addressed appropriately.
C. Globalisation has made significant positive contributions to economies all across
the world.
D. For example — Science and technology have made remarkable strides, providing
businesses with a fantastic opportunity to expand quickly even outside of national
borders.
(A) ACDB
(B) BCDA
(C) ACBD
(D) CDBA

Q6.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. In Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Anglican, Oriental Orthodox and Lutheran teaching,
all of their faithful departed in heaven are considered saints, although some are
deemed deserving of more praise or emulation.
B. In religious belief, a saint is a person who is viewed as possessing an uncommon
degree of holiness, similarity, or proximity to God.
C. The term saint, however, is used differently depending on the setting and
denomination.
D. Some saints receive official ecclesiastical recognition and, as a result, a public cult
of veneration through the process of canonisation in the Catholic Church or
glorification in the Eastern Orthodox Church.
(A) BCAD
(B) BCDA
(C) CBDA
(D) BDAC

Q7.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A.This has an impact not just on global poverty, but also on Indians' awareness of the
country's poverty for the first time in a decade.
B.And, for the first time in a decade, this update includes India's poverty data.
C.From 15 September 2022, a new global poverty line has been established, with the
World Bank revising its data in the Poverty and Inequality Platform on this basis.
D.According to Sunitha Sinha, Roy and Roy van der Weide of the World Bank's Policy
Research Working Paper, "poverty in India had dropped over the recent decade,
although not as much as previously thought."
(A) DBAC
(B) CBAD
(C) CADB
(D) DBCA

Q8.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. The outcome is much more likely to be favourable if there is substantial
international aid than if there is not.
B. Many of the underdeveloped countries will promote the growth of their economies
in one way or the other, no matter whether they receive substantial outside aid in the
process or not.
C. By substantial aid I mean not only large amounts of technical assistance but also of
capital.
D. The character of that development, however, is likely to be strongly influenced by
the types of and amounts of aid available.
(A) BDAC
(B) ABDC
(C) DABC
(D) DBCA

Q9.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. The government's recent efforts have concentrated on strengthening these ties.
B. The textile industry in India is one of the country's oldest, stretching back several
centuries.
C. The textile business is immensely diverse, with hand-spun and hand-woven textiles
at one end of the spectrum and capital-intensive modern mills at the other.
D. Its tight ties to agriculture (for raw materials such as cotton) and the country's old
history and traditions in terms of textiles set it apart from other sectors in the country.
(A) DABC
(B) ABCD
(C) BCDA
(D) CBDA

Q10.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. According to him, Rupees 75 lakhs has been spent to make the gymnasium fully
equipped with state-of-the-art fitness machines.
B. The Honorable Commissioner of Police inaugurated the Gymnasium and Swimming
pool and appended the management for their efforts in providing such amenities to
students.
C. A new indoor gymnasium and swimming pool was inaugurated at APJ International
School, Goa.
D. Mr. Mercia, the Principal of the school familiarised the guests about the cost
incurred and the various facilities available.
(A) CBDA
(B) BDCA
(C) ADBC
(D) DABC

Q11.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. In Bihar and Central India, in particular, every district had smelters that used local
deposits of ore to produce iron which was widely used for the manufacture of
implements and tools of daily use.
B. The smelting was done by men while women worked on the bellows, pumping air
that kept the charcoal burning.
C. But iron smelting in India was extremely common till the end of the nineteenth
century.
D. Production of Wootz steel required a highly specialised technique of refining iron.
(A) ACDB
(B) DCAB
(C) BCDA
(D) CBDA

Q12.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. The other half had been sued at least twice, and Levinson found that just on the
basis of those conversations, she could find clear differences between the two
groups.
B. Recently the medical researcher Wendy Levinson recorded hundreds of
conversations between a group of physicians and their patients.
C. The surgeons who had never been sued spent more than three minutes longer with
each patient than those who had been sued did.
D. Roughly half of the doctors had never been sued.
(A) BDAC
(B) CABD
(C) ABCD
(D) BCAD

Q13.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. In a study sponsored by World Health Organisation and carried out by Harvard
School of Public Health, the global burden and injury indicated that stress diseases
and accidents are going to be the killers in 2020.
B. Road traffic accidents are going to be the third largest killers.
C. These accidents are also an indicator of psycho-social stress in a fast-moving
society.
D. The heart disease and depression - both stress diseases - are going to rank first
and second in 2020.
(A) BCDA
(B) CBAD
(C) DACB
(D) ADBC

Q14.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. And also, they contribute to the development of social and environmental solutions
for the planet's future.
B. Companies do play an important role in modern society.
C. Because of their systematic relevance and their impact on policy-making,
companies must use their influence in ways that benefit the public good.
D. Some corporations have become so large that their activities and strategic
decisions have a direct impact on government policy and citizens' lives.
(A) DCAB
(B) DBCA
(C) ADCB
(D) BDCA

Q15.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. Diwali, referred to as the ‘festival of lights’, ushers in the winter season with joy,
shopping, presents, and a slew of new occasions and celebrations, such as Dussehra,
Dhanteras, Govardhan, Bhaidooj, and Narak Chaturdashi.
B. In the spiritual world, the event symbolises ‘the triumph of light over darkness’.
C. The five-day festival of Diwali is observed during the Hindu month of Kartika as an
event.
D. In India, Diwali is also known as Deepawali.
(A) BACD
(B) DBCA
(C) CDBA
(D) ACBD

Q16.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. Ashwagandha is an adaptogenic herb that has multiple benefits like improving
thyroid functioning and reducing blood sugar levels.
B. But remember to consult a specialist while deciding the dosage and duration of
continued intake.
C. It relaxes the nervous system and lowers cortisol (stress hormone) levels in the
blood, thus making you feel calm and relaxed overall.
D. You can consume Ashwagandha powder or Ashwagandha capsules.
(A) ADBC
(B) DABC
(C) ACDB
(D) ADCB

Q17.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. He later tried to franchise his restaurant.
B.Colonel Harland Sanders' real-life story of being disappointed numerous times in his
life and still making his ambition come true late in life is truly motivating.
C.He began selling chicken at the age of 40, but his dream of opening a restaurant was
repeatedly denied owing to conflicts and wars.
D.He is a seventh-grade dropout who tried many things in life but found them bitter.
(A) BCDA
(B) BDCA
(C) BDAC
(D) BACD

Q18.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. Android began in 2003 as a project of the American technology company Android
Inc., to develop an operating system for digital cameras.
B. In 2004, the project changed to become an operating system for smartphones.
C. Android is an operating system for cellular telephones and tablet computers.
D. In 2005, Android Inc. was bought by the American search engine company Google
Inc. that transformed the OS into what it is today.
(A) CABD
(B) ABDC
(C) DCAB
(D) BADC

Q19.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. During the summer, I noticed that the leaves of the tree were beginning to wither.
B. I am especially proud of it, not only because it has survived several winters, but
because it occasionally produces luscious peaches.
C. The tree had grown against a warm wall on a sheltered side of the house.
D. Last summer, I spent many days in the garden watching thousands of ants crawling
up the trunk of my prize peach tree.
(A) DCBA
(B) ABCD
(C) CDBA
(D) BDAC

Q20.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A.It is not a walker’s paradise. So walking is not a fashionable pastime here.
B.London is known for its hectic face, frenzied movements, high decibels and dust
kicked by the speeding vehicles.
C.On the contrary, life in the countryside is laid back and easy paced. Unless it is
raining, people set out for walk.
D.For these reasons, Max never went out for a walk, nor did anyone ask him to
accompany.
(A) ADCB
(B) BADC
(C) DCAB
(D) CADB

Q21.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. He repeated the experiment, increasing the amount until he had weighed up to a
thousand pounds.
B. During the spring of 1717, the iron foundries in a remote district were often visited
by a thin, middle-aged man with a notebook.
C. Three cauldrons were next prepared under his directions.
D. He would weigh out two pounds of iron, have them heated till they were red-hot and
then weigh them again.
(A) BDAC
(B) ABDC
(C) BCAD
(D) CABD

Q22.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. Many species of bamboo flower once in several years and then die.
B. The stem itself is hollow and is connected to a network of rhizomes, which spreads
out beneath the surface of the soil.
C. Roots grow out of this network of rhizomes and help the plants to absorb and
distribute food and water from the soil.
D. The bamboo is a variety of grass, with a woody, many-jointed stem.
(A) ADCB
(B) DBCA
(C) BCAD
(D) CADC

Q23.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. My grandmother always went to school with me because the school was attached to
the temple.
B. When we both finished, we would be back together.
C. While the children sat in rows on either side of the verandah singing the alphabet or
prayer in chorus, my grandmother sat inside reading the scriptures.
D. The priest taught us the alphabet and the morning prayer.
(A) ACBD
(B) ABDC
(C) ADCB
(D) ADBC

Q24.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. Nostalgia helps us maintain a positive psychological status when counteracting the
negative impact of difficult situations.
B. Nostalgia is a sentimental longing for one’s past.
C. The adaptive functions of nostalgia are many, with one effect being pain relief.
D. It is a self-conscious, perhaps bittersweet but predominantly positive social
emotion.
(A) CDBA
(B) BDAC
(C) ABCD
(D) CADB

Q25.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A.The top band is made of saffron, which symbolises power and courage.
B.The constituent assembly adopted our national flag, Tiranga, which means tricolour,
on 22 July 1947.
C.As a symbol of nationalism and freedom, it is fashioned from khadi, which is
domestically spun Indian cotton.
D.It features three horizontal stripes that are all the same width.
(A) CBAD
(B) CBDA
(C) BCDA
(D) BDCA

Q26.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. Louis was enthralled by the concept of a raised dots system.
B. He made up his mind to use the technique to represent an alphabetic code.
C. Blind persons could read large-letter books that are bulky with the aid of this
alphabet code.
D. Additionally, he developed the six-dot cell technology, which was at his fingertips.
(A) DCAB
(B) BCDA
(C) ABCD
(D) CDBA

Q27.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the sentences in
the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. Lord Ganesha, the Destroyer of Obstacles, is worshipped for his wisdom and
brilliance.
B.People adore the goddess Lakshmi and Lord Ganesha on Diwali.
C.This 'New Year' i.e., Diwali is marked by merchants establishing new account books.
D.Goddess Lakshmi is also worshipped on Diwali for wealth and success.
(A) DABC
(B) BADC
(C) ADBC
(D) CDBA

Q28.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below. While the first and the last sentences (S1
and S6) are in the correct order, the sentences in between are jumbled up. Arrange the
sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
S1. A moment comes
A.long suppressed
B.and when the soul of a nation
C.which comes but rarely in history
D.when we step out from the old to the new, when an age ends
S6. finds utterance.
(A) CBAD
(B) CDBA
(C) ABCD
(D) DCBA

Q29.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below. While the first and the last sentences (S1
and S6) are in the correct order, the sentences in between are jumbled up. Arrange the
sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
S1. He sat in his seat
A.hardly showing any signs of hearing
B.beside the bed,
C.gazing sternly
D.at the patient’s face
S6. what they were saying to him.
(A) DABC
(B) BCDA
(C) DCAB
(D) DBAC

Q30.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The magazine house was expecting unpublished authors for their forthcoming
exclusive issue on new trends.
(A) Unpublished authors will be expected by the magazine house for their forthcoming exclusive issue on new trends.
(B) Unpublished authors were being expected by the magazine house for their forthcoming exclusive issue on new trends.
(C) Unpublished authors was expected by the magazine house for their forthcoming exclusive issue on new trends.
(D) Unpublished authors were expected by the magazine house for their forthcoming exclusive issue on new trends.

Q31.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The company's board of directors will announce the financial results at the annual
meeting tomorrow.
(A) The financial results will have been announced by the company's board of directors at the annual meeting tomorrow.
(B) The financial results are being announced by the company's board of directors at the annual meeting tomorrow.
(C) The company's board of directors announced the financial results at the annual meeting tomorrow.
(D) The financial results will be announced by the company's board of directors at the annual meeting tomorrow.

Q32.
Select the option that contains a grammatical error in the underlined portion.
When Mrs. Sinha came to see Varanasi in 2019, Nupur has already been teaching there
for five years.
(A) When Mrs. Sinha came to see Varanasi in 2019, Nupur has already been teaching there for five years.
(B) When Mrs. Sinha came to see Varanasi in 2019, Nupur has already been teaching there for five years.
(C) When Mrs. Sinha came to see Varanasi in 2019, Nupur has already been teaching there for five years.
(D) When Mrs. Sinha came to see Varanasi in 2019, Nupur has already been teaching there for five years.

Q33.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
The Department of Educational Policy is committed to the study of educational policy,
analyse, and evaluate educational programmes, to identify trends, understand
outcomes and guide policy and practice, towards finding solutions to current
problems in educational governance and management.
(A) affiliated
(B) dedicated
(C) inclined
(D) apathetic

Q34.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
They usually allege that there is / a delay in procuring stationery / due to the faulty
purchase orders.
(A) due to the faulty purchase orders
(B) a delay in procuring stationery
(C) They usually allege that there is
(D) No error

Q35.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
All the horses, except one, always / behaved in a rough manner when / Robert come to
clean the stable.
(A) behaved in a rough manner when
(B) Robert come to clean the stable
(C) No error
(D) All the horses, except one, always

Q36.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
The internationally agreed Declaration of the Small Island Developing States (SIDS)
Accelerated Modalities of Action, the so-called S.A.M.O.A Pathway, recognises that
SIDS remains a special case for sustainable development in view of their unique and
particular vulnerabilities.
(A) vast
(B) unsuitable
(C) rare
(D) imperishable

Q37.
Identify the option that arranges the given parts in the correct order to form a
meaningful and coherent paragraph.
a) In Shakespeare’s hands, English drama
b) that first shone forth in his early history plays
c) William Shakespeare is considered as the greatest dramatist and poet of English
language.
d) achieved a matchless brilliance
(A) d,b,a,c
(B) a,b,c,d
(C) c,a,d,b
(D) b,c,a,d

Q38.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Polyethylene terephthalate, one of the most often recycled plastics and the material
used in the majority of water and soda bottles, can be transformed into everything
from polyester fabric to automotive parts.
(A) might be placed
(B) might be evolved
(C) may be converted
(D) may be devaluated

Q39.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Each member of the literary club submitted various literary works for the magazine.
(A) Various literary works had been submitted by each member of the literary club for the magazine.
(B) Various literary works are submitted by each member of the literary club for the magazine.
(C) Various literary works were submitted by each member of the literary club for the magazine.
(D) Various literary works were being submitted by each member of the literary club for the magazine.

Q40.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
I have thus far sketched the events of my life, but I have not shown how much I have
depended on books not only for pleasure and for the wisdom they bring to all who
read, but also for that knowledge which comes to others through their eyes and their
ears.
(A) clarity
(B) folly
(C) insight
(D) emotion

Q41.
The following sentence has been divided into three segments, A, B, C. One of them
may contain a grammatical error. Select the segment that contains the error, from the
given options. If you don’t find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
He is not rich (A) / so he cannot afford (B) / to buy a expensive car (C).
(A) C
(B) A
(C) No error
(D) B

Q42.
Select the grammatically correct sentence.
A.As a nation, India is a united country and shall always remain so.
B.As nation, India is a united country and shall always remain so.
C.As the nation, India is a united country and shall always remain so.
D.As a nation, India is an united country and shall always remain so.
(A) A
(B) B
(C) D
(D) C

Q43.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in past tense form.
The methods Arunima adopts for taming the dogs create awe and wonder among
them.
(A) The methods Arunima adopted for taming the dogs created awe and wonder among them.
(B) The methods Arunima adopts for taming the dogs created awe and wonder among them.
(C) The methods Arunima adopted for taming the dogs create awe and wonder among them.
(D) The methods Arunima adopts for taming the dogs will create awe and wonder among them.

Q44.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
After knowing truth, / the jury took the right decision / in the case.
(A) The jury took the right decision
(B) In the case
(C) After knowing truth
(D) No error

Q45.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
We hardly knew nothing / about the manager / who had recently joined.
(A) We hardly knew nothing
(B) No error
(C) about the manager
(D) who had recently joined

Q46.
Select the option that contains a grammatical error in the underlined portion.
He was always been a grumpy man so I never liked him and avoided his company.
(A) He was always been a grumpy man, so I never liked him and avoided his company.
(B) He was always been a grumpy man, so I never liked him and avoided his company.
(C) He was always been a grumpy man, so I never liked him and avoided his company.
(D) He was always been a grumpy man, so I never liked him and avoided his company.

Q47.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
Anti-party activities / improved my relations /with an opposition.
(A) Anti-party activities
(B) No error
(C) Improved my relations
(D) With an opposition

Q48.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
The growing population of India will have been controlled by the Indian government by
2040.
(A) By 2040, the Indian population will have continued to grow uncontrollably
(B) By 2040, the Indian government will have controlled the growing population of India.
(C) By 2040, the Indian government is successfully controlling the growing population of India.
(D) The Indian population will have stabilised by 2022.

Q49.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
I really don’t want to pour cold water on your theory but it cannot be applied to real life
situations.
(A) To destroy someone’s written piece of work
(B) To take revenge on someone by destroying their lives’ work under the pretext of bad quality
(C) To be critical or doubtful of a plan that someone is excited about
(D) To give goosebumps by showing a prospect

Q50.
In the following sentence, four words are underlined, out of which one word is
incorrectly spelt. Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
A lot of spontanity is required from the speaker in an extempore speech. The speaker
is expected to brainstorm ideas and give speech instantaneously .
(A) instantaneously
(B) extempore
(C) brainstorm
(D) spontanity

Q51.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
A wide-ranging effort is being made to safeguard lives and livelihoods by addressing
the devastating near-term socio-economic, humanitarian, and human rights aspects of
the crisis with attention to those hit the hardest.
(A) flourishing
(B) destructive
(C) emerging
(D) fortunate

Q52.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution’.
Honesty as well as discipline are required to succeed in life.
(A) are requirement to succeed in life
(B) is required to succeed in life
(C) has required to succeed in life
(D) No substitution

Q53.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the given sentence.
Pooja tried to explain the problem, but soon she tied herself up in knots.
(A) Be forced to explain your actions and (probably) punished
(B) Become very confused when you are trying to explain something
(C) Make no progress in an argument or discussion
(D) Won’t modify an opinion or agree to even small changes that another person wants

Q54.
Identify the sentence that contains no spelling errors.
(A) Manisha got overwhelmed by the tremendus offer by a company to work in collaboration with internet personel.
(B) Manisha got overwhelmed by the tremendous offer by a company to work in collaboration with internet personnel.
(C) Manisha got overwellmed by the tremendous offer by a company to work in collaborasion with internet personnel.
(D) Manisha got overwhelmed by the tremendous offer by a company to work in collaborasion with internet personnal.

Q55.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
He won’t receive any better choice than this from anywhere.
(A) Any better choice won’t be received by him than this from anywhere.
(B) Any better choice wouldn’t have received by him than this from anywhere.
(C) Any better choice shouldn’t be received by him than this from anywhere.
(D) Any better choice won’t have been be received by him than this from anywhere.

Q56.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Sanyukta has to bake fifty-one cakes for the anniversary party.
(A) Fifty-one cakes will be baked by Sanyukta for the anniversary party.
(B) Fifty-one cakes had to be baken by Sanyukta for the anniversary party.
(C) Fifty-one cakes have to be baked by Sanyukta for the anniversary party.
(D) Fifty-one cakes has to be baked by Sanyukta for the anniversary party.

Q57.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
The secretary to my boss is very efficient as he not only gives him the required
information and also handles correspondence independently.
(A) yet also handles
(B) but also handles
(C) along with also handles
(D) not also handles

Q58.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word ‘Naïve’ from the given sentence.
After years of working in politics, she had become cynical and jaded, convinced that
all politicians were corrupt and that the system was rigged against the people.
(A) Jaded
(B) Corrupt
(C) Cynical
(D) Convinced

Q59.
Sentences with spelling errors are given. Select the sentence with NO error.
(A) The body produces more saliva under fluorescent illumination which helps prevent cavities.
(B) The body produces more saliva under fluorescent illummination which helps prevent cavaties.
(C) The body produces more saliva under fluorescent illummination which helps prewent cavities.
(D) The body produces more saliva under fluorescent illumination which helps prewent cavaties.

Q60.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The fact that God created man in his personal view by giving him an intellectual spirit
elevates him above the beasts of the field.
(A) own glory
(B) own capacity
(C) own image
(D) own idea

Q61.
Identify the option that can be substituted as the correct idiom for the underlined part
of the given sentence.
As soon as the principal came to know about the inspection in the school, he put
everything in perfect order.
(A) Apple pie order
(B) Apple of discord
(C) Alley apple
(D) Apple of one’s eye

Q62.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The tour guide always answers the visitors’ questions.
(A) The visitors’ question was always answered by the tour guide.
(B) The visitors’ questions are answered by the tour guide always.
(C) The visitors’ questions are always answered by the tour guide.
(D) The visitors’ questions are answered always by the tour guide.

Q63.
Select the correct idiom that can substitute the italicised group of words in the given
sentence.
You must not participate in the marathon this year without any training. It is an unreal
hope on your part!
(A) carrying coal to new castle
(B) a pipe dream
(C) a will-o’-the-wisp
(D) to lose one’s temper

Q64.
Identify how will you say that “The doctor treated the victims of the violence very
carefully”, in the passive voice.
(A) The doctor was very careful while providing treatment to the victims
(B) The doctor’s care was shown to the victims of the violence
(C) The victims of the violence were treated very carefully by the doctor
(D) The victims were treated attentively by the doctor

Q65.
Identify the option that can be substituted as the correct idiom for the underlined part
of the given sentence.
My cousin sister Neetu had an aerial view of the trade fair from the top of the giant
wheel.
(A) A bird in the gilded cage
(B) Bird’s eye view
(C) Birds of same feather
(D) Bird brain

Q66.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
The village beggars, no longer ill at ease in the gathering of gliterring dignitaries, sat
in their assigned rows and joked with vegetarian Brahmin apprentices.
(A) assigned
(B) apprentices
(C) beggars
(D) gliterring

Q67.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the
given sentence.
The heavy medications and strong drugs at the sanatorium will surely turn a patient
completely lifeless and unresponsive.
(A) tombic
(B) cadaverous
(C) zonic
(D) wasted

Q68.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
We compelled the teacher to finish the class sooner.
(A) The teacher was compelled to finish the class sooner.
(B) The teacher finished the class compelled by us.
(C) Finishing the class sooner was what the teacher was compelled to do.
(D) The teacher compelled us to finish the class sooner.

Q69.
Select the sentence that contains no spelling errors.
(A) The childrens playing in the kindergarden allmost broke the window of the principal’s car.
(B) The children playing in the kindergarten almost broke the window of the principal’s car.
(C) The childrens playing in the kindergarten almost broke the window of the principal’s car.
(D) The children playing in the kindergarden allmost broke the window of the principle’s car.

Q70.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The French had regarded the scholar as a usurper.
(A) The scholar was being regarded as a usurper by the French.
(B) The scholar has been regarded as a usurper by the French.
(C) The scholar was regarded as a usurper by the French.
(D) The scholar had been regarded as a usurper by the French.

Q71.
Some words in the following sentence have been underlined and given as options.
Select the option that contains a spelling error.
He is an audacious entrepreneur who started his own business with the bear
minimum.
(A) business
(B) audacious
(C) entrepreneur
(D) bear

Q72.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence. If no substitution is required, select ‘No substitution’.
I’ve got a lot of homeworks this weekend.
(A) a lot of homework
(B) No substitution
(C) a lots of homework
(D) much homework

Q73.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In case
no improvement is needed, select 'No improvement required'
The stranger stood quietly for few moments.
(A) For the few moments
(B) No improvement required
(C) For moments
(D) For a few moments

Q74.
Select the correct idiom that can substitute the italicised group of words in the given
sentence.
Shelley has been contemplating for a few days but still has not decided to quit the job.
(A) biting the dust
(B) chewing the cud
(C) cooling one’s heels
(D) getting into hot waters

Q75.
Choose the ANTONYM of the word ‘disenfranchise’ in the given sentence.
The parliament of Tonoco authorised the king to take over the reins of the government
and disable the power of the council of ministers.
(A) Authorised
(B) Powers
(C) Disabled
(D) Reins

Q76.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the italicised group of
words in the given sentence.
The prime minister paid tributes to the martyrs by laying circular arrangement of
flowers.
(A) buds
(B) posies
(C) bouquets
(D) wreaths

Q77.
Sentences with spelling errors are given. Select the sentence with NO error.
(A) Making healtcare more affordable is something I would do as Prescident.
(B) Making healtcare more afordable is something I would do as President.
(C) Making healthcare more affordable is something I would do as President.
(D) Making healthcare more afordable is something I would do as Prescident.

Q78.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the given underlined segment in the sentence.
Riya always considers sincerity, devotion and dedication as the highest priority of a
good employee.
(A) Fair and square
(B) Ever and anon
(C) Free and easy
(D) First and foremost

Q79.
Identify from the given options the word OPPOSITE in meaning to the underlined word
according to its meaning in the following sentence.
The confectioner dusted a fine layer of sugar on the muffin.
(A) scattered
(B) sprinkled
(C) powdered
(D) cleaned

Q80.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
We are organising the charity function tomorrow.
(A) The charity function is been organised tomorrow.
(B) The charity function is being organised tomorrow.
(C) The charity function is being organise tomorrow.
(D) The charity function is organised tomorrow.

Q81.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
I just went to Bali on a backpacking trip and did everything by the ear without any
itinerary.
(A) by spreading rumors
(B) by improvisation
(C) while criticising
(D) by asking

Q82.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
My younger brother were attending a short-term computer course these days.
(A) were attending
(B) My younger brother
(C) a short-term computer course
(D) these days

Q83.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the
given sentence.
He did not stop until it was remarked that he was speaking at length about trivial
things.
(A) twittering
(B) writing
(C) rambling
(D) littering

Q84.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the
given sentence.
Being a practiced liar, it was totally normal for him to utter a complete and blatant lie.
(A) blasphemy
(B) whooper
(C) falsehood
(D) perjury

Q85.
Select the synonym of the word ‘reproduce’ from the sentence.
Many scientific researches have proved that DNA replicates itself in the human body
and is an enzyme based catalyst reaction.
(A) Replicates
(B) Reaction
(C) Proved
(D) Researches

Q86.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The question was raised for discussion before the members during the assembly
session.
(A) came up
(B) came off
(C) came round
(D) came out

Q87.
Select the grammatically correct sentence.
(A) It was a hectic day for Susan with a lot of purchases and a couple of meetings.
(B) It was a hectic day for Susan with the lot of purchase and a couple of meetings.
(C) It was a hectic day for Susan with the lot of purchase and an couple of meetings.
(D) It was the hectic day for Susan with a lot of purchase and the couple of meetings.

Q88.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
There is a charm on the midnight air which all cannot experience.
(A) over the midnight air
(B) around the midnight air
(C) in the midnight air
(D) under the midnight air

Q89.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
Neetu have been / waiting for me / since 10 o’clock / in the morning.
(A) Neetu have been
(B) in the morning
(C) since 10 o’clock
(D) waiting for me

Q90.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word to fill in the blank.
While most friends persuaded him to choose the career, there were a few who
_________ him from doing so.
(A) evaded
(B) bombarded
(C) dissuaded
(D) situated

Q91.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word from the sentence.
Ready
She was preparing dinner in an organised manner using well-equipped tools while
listening to the radio.
(A) Preparing
(B) Listening
(C) Organised
(D) Equipped

Q92.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Enjoying or affording warm secure shelter or cover and opportunity for ease and
contentment
(A) Undisturbed
(B) Easeful
(C) Untroubled
(D) Snug

Q93.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
You should / see a oculist; / your eyes look / worse today.
(A) your eyes look
(B) You should
(C) worse today
(D) see a oculist

Q94.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
We must remember that what we teach our children is what we inculcate in them.
(A) endanger
(B) inspire
(C) instil
(D) import

Q95.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The farmers are harvesting the crops.
(A) The crops are harvested by farmers.
(B) The crops have been harvested by the farmers.
(C) The crops are been harvested by the farmers.
(D) The crops are being harvested by the farmers.

Q96.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The murder of a large number of people from a particular nation or ethnic group.
(A) Geronticide
(B) Honour killing
(C) Genocide
(D) Mariticide

Q97.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
The doctor came / after the patient / had / pass away.
(A) The doctor came
(B) pass away
(C) after the patient
(D) had

Q98.
Select the most appropriate idiomatic expression to fill in the blank.
Anita keeps on repeating that she is innocent, but there is ___________.
(A) no smoke without fire
(B) no pulling up of the socks
(C) no rubbing of the shoulders
(D) no love lost between

Q99.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
He described about the scenery yesterday.
(A) described about the scenary
(B) described the scenery
(C) describing about the scenery
(D) describe the scenery

Q100.
Select the grammatically correct sentence.
(A) The participants of the competition are waiting for their turn curiously.
(B) The participants of the competition has been waiting for their turn curiously.
(C) A participants of the competition is waiting for their turn curiously.
(D) The participants of the competition is waiting for their turn curiously.

Q101.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
My father is reading the newspaper.
(A) The newspaper is being read by my father.
(B) The newspaper happens to be read by my father.
(C) The newspaper was being read by my father.
(D) My father likes reading the newspaper.

Q102.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word given in brackets to fill in the
blank.
Mr. Khanna is quite ___________(callous) towards the victims of earthquake.
(A) rationalistic
(B) unsympathetic
(C) sympathetic
(D) nondiplomatic

Q103.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
My mother is a honest and well known woman in the society.
(A) in the society
(B) My mother
(C) is a honest
(D) and well known woman

Q104.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the italicised word in the given sentence.
In most organisations there are predators who take advantage over the meek ones.
(A) supporters
(B) philanthropists
(C) benefactors
(D) exploiters

Q105.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
My friend Meera and her mother is visiting me this weekend.
(A) have visiting
(B) am visiting
(C) was visiting
(D) are visiting

Q106.
Select the most appropriate idiom or phrase to fill in the blank in the given sentence.
He is rich and famous and expects everyone to _________ on him.
(A) tap dance like mad
(B) dead duck
(C) give a song and dance
(D) dance attendance

Q107.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The young boy displayed an aptitude on scientific research.
(A) aptitude for
(B) aptitude at
(C) aptitude by
(D) aptitude in

Q108.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The teacher is explaining the lesson.
(A) The lesson explained the teacher.
(B) The teacher explained the lesson.
(C) The lesson is being explained by the teacher.
(D) The lesson was explained by the teacher.

Q109.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
It can / get extreme cold / during / the winters.
(A) the winters
(B) during
(C) It can
(D) get extreme cold

Q110.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
I worked hard so that I might success .
(A) that I may success
(B) that I might successful
(C) that I might succeed
(D) that I might successor

Q111.
Select the word that is INCORRECTLY spelt in the given sentence.
Traditional people are used to using a calender for their routine activities in rural
households.
(A) Traditional
(B) Households
(C) Calender
(D) Activities

Q112.
Select the most appropriate idiom/phrase that can substitute the given group of
words.
The better you know someone the less you like him.
(A) Save for a rainy day
(B) Spill the beans
(C) The elephant in the room
(D) Familiarity breeds contempt

Q113.
Identify how you will ask everyone if the children were not reading the books in
passive voice.
(A) Were the books being read by the children?
(B) Were the books not being read by the children?
(C) Were the book not being read by the children?
(D) Were the children reading the books?

Q114.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word ‘Optimistic’ from the given
sentence.
After the incident, Radha prepared herself to stay positive even in gloomy days.
(A) stay
(B) incident
(C) positive
(D) gloomy

Q115.
Select the correct spelling for the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
Education plays a crucal role in breaking the cycle of poverty and child labour.
(A) proverty
(B) crucial
(C) braking
(D) edukation

Q116.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
You wash / the dishes / and / I dry the same.
(A) and
(B) You wash
(C) l dry the same
(D) the dishes

Q117.
Identify and correct the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
The Collector paid floral tributes to the statue of Mahatma Gandhi after hosting the
flag.
(A) floaral
(B) stateu
(C) trebutes
(D) hoisting

Q118.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who believes that laws and governments are not necessary.
(A) Antagonist
(B) Antichrist
(C) Anarchist
(D) Adversary

Q119.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word to fill in the blank.
Instead of becoming joyous to hear the breaking news, she became _________ .
(A) melancholic
(B) vengeful
(C) ecstatic
(D) exuberant

Q120.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The commanders entered by force into terrorists’ camp.
(A) broke down
(B) broke with
(C) broke into
(D) broke off

Q121.
Select the option that can substitute the underlined segment with the correct idiom.
After finishing this assignment, the employees make it a day.
(A) call it a day
(B) consider it a day
(C) stop it a day
(D) ring it a day

Q122.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains an error.
I love to read certain stories from a Mahabharata.
(A) certain
(B) to
(C) love
(D) a

Q123.
Select the most appropriate word segment for the underlined word in the given
sentence.
Pintu has been advised to reduce smoking by his family doctor.
(A) lower down
(B) up down
(C) less down
(D) cut down

Q124.
Select the most appropriate synonym to substitute the underlined word.
The weather forecast mentioned that there would be a cloud burst this afternoon.
(A) rainstorm
(B) sandstorm
(C) famine
(D) snowfall

Q125.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The crowd gave an exultant cheer to the football team when they were exiting the
airport.
(A) rejoicing
(B) disconsolate
(C) jubilant
(D) elated

Q126.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Shakuntala Devi was born on 4th November 1929. In her childhood she ________to
school.
(A) never gone
(B) went never
(C) had never been
(D) ever been

Q127.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
_________ are words which have the same spelling or pronunciation but not the same
meaning.
(A) Acronyms
(B) Homonyms
(C) Synonyms
(D) Antonyms

Q128.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
The painting was not made by you.
(A) You should not make the painting.
(B) You does not make the painting.
(C) You did not make the painting.
(D) You do not make the painting.

Q129.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
You snooze, you lose
(A) If you oversleep, you are likely to lose a job
(B) Laziness is not good
(C) You may lose your money if snoozing is not stopped
(D) If you are not alert, you are likely to miss opportunities.

Q130.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Here / come / the bus / for Lucknow.
(A) for Lucknow
(B) the bus
(C) come
(D) Here

Q131.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Author’s explanatory remarks at the beginning of a book
(A) Preface
(B) Foreward
(C) Bibliography
(D) Biography

Q132.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blanks.
Soon after the doctor gave her the next ______ of the medicine, the patient began to
(A) dose, dozed
(B) dosed, doze
(C) dose, doze
(D) doze, dose

Q133.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The termites were just the tip of the _________, but the house was near collapsing in
reality.
(A) mountain
(B) iceberg
(C) shoe
(D) heel

Q134.
Select the correct sentence in active voice from the following options.
(A) The neighbours have called the police.
(B) The police are being called by the neighbours.
(C) The Police said to me, “I will call the neighbours.”
(D) The police have been called by the neighbours.

Q135.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Changing secret and coded messages in a readable form
(A) Decoupling
(B) Encoding
(C) Decoding
(D) Encrypting

Q136.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The musician gave a dismal performance of a few old melodies at last night’s concert.
(A) smart
(B) melancholy
(C) exhausting
(D) lively

Q137.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
You have adopted the plan.
(A) The plan should be adopted by you.
(B) The plan is adopted by you.
(C) The plan has being adopted by you.
(D) The plan has been adopted by you.

Q138.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Something belonging to or surviving from an earlier period
(A) Vestige
(B) Dinosaur
(C) Ruin
(D) Relic

Q139.
Identify the option that rectifies the error in the given sentence.
In 2023, she will has been working in the company for three years.
(A) By 2023
(B) in company
(C) she will have been
(D) since three years

Q140.
Identify and correct the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
Successful people often have a role modal who inspired them to greatness.
(A) gratenes
(B) succesful
(C) inspaired
(D) model

Q141.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
Were the cakes being baked by them?
(A) Were they baking the cakes?
(B) Did the cakes baked by them?
(C) Were they baking the cake?
(D) Was cakes being baked by them?

Q142.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
Those four pages were torn by Jack.
(A) Jack tears those four pages.
(B) Jack tore those four pages.
(C) Jack tear these four pages.
(D) Jack tore these four pages.

Q143.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
She is in an hurry to meet her brother.
(A) to meet
(B) She is in
(C) her brother
(D) an hurry

Q144.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Henry is so servile that other people take advantage of him.
(A) Arrogant
(B) Sheepish
(C) Bickering
(D) Cunning

Q145.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Does she prepare the lesson?
(A) Do she prepare the lesson?
(B) Is the lesson prepared by her?
(C) Is she preparing the lesson?
(D) Is the lesson being prepared by her?

Q146.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined phrase.
Though very rich, Alexander always saves for a rainy day.
(A) Saves money for later
(B) Lives like a miser
(C) Spends too much
(D) Accumulates less wealth

Q147.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the highlighted word in the given sentence.
A strong man is a mediator between divine and mortal fate.
(A) Delightful
(B) Sincere
(C) Overjoyed
(D) Lethal

Q148.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
The deer was killed by the boar.
(A) The deer killed the boar.
(B) The boar was killing the deer.
(C) The boar was killed by the deer.
(D) The boar killed the deer.

Q149.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
To achieve somthing gigantic, you have to grind for a considerable amount of time.
(A) somthing
(B) considerable
(C) gigantic
(D) achieve

Q150.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Someone who regards the world as his country
(A) Atheist
(B) Metropolitan
(C) Cosmopolitan
(D) Philanthropist

Q151.
Select the most appropriate phrasal verb to fill in the blank.
The driver very subtly ___________ the traffic violation he committed.
(A) ironed through
(B) ironed in
(C) ironed out
(D) ironed aside

Q152.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
They are hitting the ball.
(A) The ball has been hit by them.
(B) The ball is being hitten by them.
(C) The ball is hit by them.
(D) The ball is being hit by them.

Q153.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
The boys and the teacher wants to win.
(A) wants to won
(B) want to won
(C) want win
(D) want to win

Q154.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Keats and Shelly were poets of the same period; in other words, they were
(A) contemporaries
(B) co-writers
(C) colleagues
(D) associates

Q155.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A place where airplanes are kept for maintenance
(A) Hanger
(B) Scullery
(C) Hangar
(D) Aviary

Q156.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the
given sentence.
She had an ability to persuade others.
(A) halt
(B) suppress
(C) outrage
(D) impress

Q157.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
He was praised by his father.
(A) His father has praised him.
(B) His father praises him.
(C) His father had praised him.
(D) His father praised him.

Q158.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Not informed about or aware of something
(A) Oblivious
(B) Uneducated
(C) Absent
(D) Inconscient

Q159.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The practice of writing dictionaries
(A) Anthropology
(B) Lexicography
(C) Photography
(D) Philology

Q160.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Get up on the wrong side of the bed
(A) Someone who is having a horrible day
(B) Destroy or ruin a plan
(C) Someone who is having a good day
(D) Go to bed or go to sleep

Q161.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A speech by an actor at the end of a play
(A) Prologue
(B) Monologue
(C) Epilogue
(D) Duologue

Q162.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Stories of dolphins’ saving human lives ________ throughout history.
(A) have been said
(B) told
(C) have been told
(D) had been said

Q163.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
I confronted the journalist with the evidence.
(A) Resisted
(B) Avoided
(C) Challenged
(D) Encountered

Q164.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Never changing and therefore boring.
(A) Outdated
(B) Impractical
(C) Idealistic
(D) Monotonous

Q165.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Too strong to be defeated or changed
(A) Invincible
(B) Headstrong
(C) Vigorous
(D) Sovereign

Q166.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
I take my _______ off to our freedom fighters for their service to our country.
(A) boots
(B) hat
(C) gun
(D) socks

Q167.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
One may accomplish many things by a little effort.
(A) Qualify
(B) Retain
(C) Execute
(D) Miss

Q168.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who does not drink alcohol.
(A) Vegetarian
(B) Celibate
(C) Teetotaller
(D) Abstain

Q169.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Burial ground consisting of graves.
(A) Courtyard
(B) Cemetery
(C) Sanctuary
(D) Auditorium

Q170.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Kind, generous, and forgiving.
(A) Magnificent
(B) Grandiloquent
(C) Portentous
(D) Magnanimous

Q171.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Life history written by oneself.
(A) Autography
(B) Autobiography
(C) Autophagy
(D) Autocracy

Q172.
Choose the option that rectifies the incorrectly spelt underlined word.
Mr. Singh is a phenomenally sucsesful salesperson.
(A) sucessful
(B) successful
(C) successfull
(D) sucesfull

Q173.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
Was the bag packed by Mary?
(A) Was Mary pack the bag?
(B) Is Mary packing the bag?
(C) Do Mary pack the bag?
(D) Did Mary pack the bag?

Q174.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
At cross purposes
(A) Developing and amplifying ideas given
(B) Finalising ideas and plans
(C) Blindly following each other’s ideas
(D) Disagreeing with each other’s ideas

Q175.
Select the correct option to substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
He had given me that book in 1999.
(A) did given me
(B) was given me
(C) gives me
(D) gave me

Q176.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The group of travellers were wonderstruck by the ___________ of the coin.
(A) wait
(B) white
(C) weight
(D) wide

Q177.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
My niece is an amateur artist. I hope she becomes famous one day.
(A) Boring
(B) Freelancing
(C) Expert
(D) Decent

Q178.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The actress is very ______ and takes pride in her appearance all the time.
(A) vein
(B) wane
(C) vane
(D) vain

Q179.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
She is _________ a peacock in the blue satin saree.
(A) very beautiful as
(B) so beautiful as
(C) as beautiful as
(D) beautiful like

Q180.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Someone who lives in solitude
(A) Metropolitan
(B) Cosmopolitan
(C) Recluse
(D) Refugee

Q181.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The professor's lectures are very conventional and so tedious.
(A) Interesting
(B) Informative
(C) Idle
(D) Boring

Q182.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
The boxer showed audacity by agreeing to fight the champion.
(A) Honesty
(B) Desperation
(C) Courage
(D) Reparation

Q183.
Select the most appropriate synonym for the highlighted word.
This is credible information provided by the informer.
(A) commendable
(B) dependable
(C) detachable
(D) digestible

Q184.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
She chided her son for being impatient with the customers.
(A) reproved
(B) scolded
(C) applauded
(D) rebuked

Q185.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
_________ in population is a hindrance to a country’s growth.
(A) Contract
(B) Decrease
(C) Reduce
(D) Increase

Q186.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Filled with fear or dread
(A) Prudent
(B) Tremulous
(C) Corpulent
(D) Hysterical

Q187.
Select the most appropriate homonym to fill in the blank.
Please ___________more sugar to the juice so that it becomes sweeter
(A) aide
(B) ad
(C) aid
(D) add

Q188.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Outer protective layer of a tree.
(A) Bark
(B) Shrub
(C) Rind
(D) Peel

Q189.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
She reminds me always that I ________ to be a little more careful.
(A) had
(B) have
(C) must
(D) has

Q190.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who loves mankind
(A) Atheist
(B) Pessimist
(C) Optimist
(D) Philanthropist

Q191.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Which cannot be read.
(A) Illiterate
(B) Inaudible
(C) Invisible
(D) Illegible

Q192.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The village fair was cancelled due to incessant rains.
(A) Insistent
(B) Daily
(C) Sporadic
(D) Continual

Q193.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
I don’t like to work with people who are not flexible.
(A) Capable
(B) Malleable
(C) Open-ended
(D) Rigid

Q194.
Select the correct spelling of the underline word.
They denied having any associasion with the terrorists.
(A) asociation
(B) asocciation
(C) assosiation
(D) association

Q195.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Hundreds of firms went bankrupt during the _________.
(A) recission
(B) revision
(C) remission
(D) recession

Q196.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
We _________ off old clothes and bought new ones for Diwali.
(A) cost
(B) coast
(C) caste
(D) cast

Q197.
Describe how you will tell your parents that Suraj is loved by Siva in active voice.
(A) Siva is been loving Suraj.
(B) Suraj loved Siva.
(C) Siva loves Suraj.
(D) Siva were loving Suraj.

Q198.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Do you know the old adage 'the show must go on’?
(A) Misconstruction
(B) Rebuke
(C) Dare
(D) Addiction

Q199.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A thing fit to eat.
(A) Eligible
(B) Digestible
(C) Curable
(D) Edible

Q200.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Yesterday, I ate only a __________ of apples for my dinner.
(A) pier
(B) pear
(C) pare
(D) pair

Q201.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
We lived a very frugal life during our childhood.
(A) Reckless
(B) Weary
(C) Severe
(D) Extravagant

Q202.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Which _________ do you usually take to reach your office?
(A) route
(B) root
(C) rout
(D) rude

Q203.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
He was compelled by everyone to join the group.
(A) Demur
(B) Obscured
(C) Confessed
(D) Induced

Q204.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Miss the boat
(A) Missing a good opportunity
(B) Missing your medium of travel
(C) Missing good moments of your life
(D) Being too late

Q205.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
She could easily eat the _________ biryani by herself.
(A) haul
(B) whole
(C) hall
(D) hole

Q206.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Hard nut to crack
(A) A problem difficult to solve
(B) To leave an effect
(C) A situation that can be altered
(D) To bid farewell

Q207.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Her parents forbade her to marry her lover.
(A) prevented
(B) refused
(C) declined
(D) allowed

Q208.
Choose the most appropriate meaning of the underlined phrase.
His voice gets on my nerves.
(A) Makes me ill
(B) Pierces my eardrums
(C) Irritates me
(D) Makes me sad

Q209.
Select the most appropriate synonym for the highlighted word.
His modest nature made all the difference.
(A) courageous
(B) horrific
(C) shy
(D) dry

Q210.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
His knowledge is superficial in nature.
(A) Deviant
(B) Profound
(C) Artificial
(D) Opposing

Q211.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
I object the false claims made against me.
(A) assent
(B) ease
(C) restore
(D) ascertain

Q212.
Select the most appropriate homonym to fill in the blank.
The hunter dogs followed the hyena’s ________.
(A) sense
(B) scent
(C) cense
(D) cents

Q213.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
He was riding his bike on a bumpy surface.
(A) Jerky
(B) Uneven
(C) Choppy
(D) Steady

Q214.
Select the most appropriate homonym to fill in the blank.
The children enjoyed the _________ very much.
(A) feer
(B) fear
(C) fere
(D) fair

Q215.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
They praised her for her bravery.
(A) Acclaimed
(B) Rebuked
(C) Defended
(D) Assaulted

Q216.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Raghav had a good ______ for stage plays.
(A) trip
(B) trope
(C) troop
(D) troupe

Q217.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
________ droplets settled on top of leaves.
(A) Due
(B) Doe
(C) Do
(D) Dew

Q218.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Her dog can climb under the fence.
(A) Over
(B) Sink
(C) Behind
(D) Beneath

Q219.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
In a soup
(A) Extremely short of money
(B) To exhibit cowardice
(C) To get nothing
(D) In trouble

Q220.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
A _________ is a female horse.
(A) vixen
(B) doe
(C) mare
(D) rooster

Q221.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Out of the blue
(A) Undoubtedly
(B) Unexpectedly
(C) Unbelievably
(D) Unconcerned

Q222.
Select the option that is OPPOSITE in meaning to the given word.
Incompetent
(A) Forlorn
(B) Desperate
(C) Hopeless
(D) Dexterous

Q223.
Select the option that is OPPOSITE in meaning to the given word.
Jubilant
(A) Indifferent
(B) Thoughtful
(C) Gay
(D) Melancholic

Q224.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To kick the bucket
(A) To be ill
(B) Be sad
(C) Be happy
(D) To die

Q225.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) being disappeared
(B) disappear
(C) have disappeared
(D) having disappeared

Q226.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) heart breaking
(B) contradictory
(C) irreversible
(D) conditional

Q227.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Prohibition
(A) Restriction
(B) Inhibition
(C) Direction
(D) Permission

Q228.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Compulsory
(A) Obligatory
(B) Mandatory
(C) Voluntary
(D) Subsidiary

Q229.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Judicious
(A) Sensible
(B) Imprudent
(C) Careless
(D) Short-sighted

Q230.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) contaminants
(B) barriers
(C) possibilities
(D) limitations

Q231.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Lily-livered
(A) Brave
(B) Comical
(C) Not brave
(D) Naughty

Q232.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Zealous
(A) Enthusiastic
(B) Detached
(C) Apathetic
(D) Indifferent

Q233.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Intentional
(A) Cordial
(B) Unplanned
(C) Amiable
(D) Inanimate

Q234.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) opportunity
(B) disadvantage
(C) hinderance
(D) obstacle

Q235.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) technical
(B) problem-solving
(C) interpersonal
(D) accounting

Q236.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Hostile
(A) Pleasant
(B) Hospitable
(C) Empathetic
(D) Unfriendly

Q237.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 5.
(A) has witnessed
(B) is witnessed
(C) was witness
(D) has been witnessed

Q238.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Selective
(A) Stimulating
(B) Careless
(C) Doubtful
(D) Planned

Q239.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Predicament
(A) Ease
(B) Quandary
(C) Blessing
(D) Solution

Q240.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) As a result
(B) As a reaction
(C) Causing
(D) As a reason

Q241.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) emission
(B) feeding
(C) creation
(D) fertilisation

Q242.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) despondence
(B) imbalance
(C) hunger
(D) creativity

Q243.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) pregnancy
(B) famine
(C) overpopulation
(D) surgery

Q244.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Memory
(A) Suppress
(B) Oblivion
(C) Retrospection
(D) Impart

Q245.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) dating
(B) construction
(C) halting
(D) recreation

Q246.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) considering
(B) to consider
(C) considered
(D) consider

Q247.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) break into
(B) breaks to
(C) break from
(D) breaks into

Q248.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) mimicking
(B) upholding
(C) lacking
(D) contextualising

Q249.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) irrevocably
(B) irrevocable
(C) irrelevant
(D) suddenly

Q250.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Glorify
(A) Simplify
(B) Stupefy
(C) Praise
(D) Strengthen

Q251.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) contents
(B) substances
(C) essences
(D) compositions

Q252.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Absurd
(A) Sensible
(B) Tolerable
(C) Adorable
(D) Lovable

Q253.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) constrict
(B) broaden
(C) localise
(D) contract

Q254.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) accidently
(B) reluctantly
(C) accordingly
(D) slowly

Q255.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) flexible
(B) flexibility
(C) suitable
(D) suitability

Q256.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) caught
(B) understood
(C) subjugated
(D) raised

Q257.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) mobs
(B) people
(C) communities
(D) conditions

Q258.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Gentle
(A) Fierce
(B) Ferocious
(C) Cruel
(D) Sympathetic

Q259.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) promoting
(B) escalating
(C) developing
(D) managing

Q260.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Abandon
(A) Quit
(B) Surrender
(C) Shorten
(D) Continue

Q261.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) mandate
(B) recommendation
(C) defunct
(D) function

Q262.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) efficiency
(B) activism
(C) severity
(D) popularity

Q263.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Extinct
(A) Vibrant
(B) Vanished
(C) Active
(D) Living

Q264.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) Instead
(B) Of course
(C) Clearly
(D) Nevertheless

Q265.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Fragile
(A) Delicate
(B) Firm
(C) Composed
(D) Fanatic

Q266.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) cultures
(B) processes
(C) scenes
(D) types

Q267.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) skill
(B) end
(C) enhancement
(D) existence

Q268.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no.1.
(A) maintenance
(B) nutrients
(C) ingredients
(D) items

Q269.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) constant
(B) entirely
(C) aspect
(D) detail

Q270.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) commute
(B) compute
(C) communicate
(D) calculate

Q271.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Connote
(A) Comment
(B) Criticise
(C) Care
(D) Convey

Q272.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) wounding
(B) harming
(C) replicating
(D) hurting

Q273.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Trivial
(A) Significant
(B) Huge
(C) Heavy
(D) Light

Q274.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) created
(B) perceived
(C) received
(D) led

Q275.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) destroyed
(B) climbed
(C) utilised
(D) fed

Q276.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Feeble
(A) Unheedful
(B) Strong
(C) Weak
(D) Baneful

Q277.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) gesture
(B) source
(C) control
(D) symbol

Q278.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) extracted
(B) constructed
(C) derived
(D) build

Q279.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 1.
(A) increasing
(B) strengthening
(C) shining
(D) developing

Q280.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) secret
(B) confidential
(C) regular
(D) common

Q281.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) cities
(B) colonies
(C) villages
(D) countries

Q282.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) balances
(B) shadows
(C) outweigh
(D) insides

Q283.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) contract
(B) lose
(C) stay
(D) localise

Q284.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) rotates
(B) revolves
(C) squares
(D) circles

Q285.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) lay
(B) disturb
(C) transmit
(D) communicate

Q286.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) drawbacks
(B) snag
(C) hitch
(D) liabilities

Q287.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Extol
(A) Reward
(B) Punish
(C) Dismay
(D) Praise

Q288.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) downward
(B) outwards
(C) upward
(D) inward

Q289.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) turned
(B) backed
(C) returned
(D) reversed

Q290.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) witness
(B) known
(C) awareness
(D) aware

Q291.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) the same
(B) alike
(C) unlike
(D) just as

Q292.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Conceal
(A) Watch
(B) See
(C) Reveal
(D) Hide

Q293.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) fauna
(B) pets
(C) thugs
(D) homies

Q294.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) cherish
(B) raise
(C) flourish
(D) tend

Q295.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 2.
(A) catered
(B) catering
(C) has catered
(D) caters

Q296.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 3.
(A) political
(B) public
(C) personal
(D) personnel

Q297.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Grow
(A) Shrink
(B) Crimp
(C) Plant
(D) Alter

Q298.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) buries
(B) buried
(C) burying
(D) bury

Q299.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) greener
(B) worse
(C) dark
(D) higher

Q300.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) typical
(B) huge
(C) the
(D) a

Q301.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) about
(B) as
(C) like
(D) than

Q302.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) until
(B) after
(C) up to
(D) since

Q303.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) that
(B) clearly
(C) how
(D) where

Q304.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) Since
(B) From
(C) As per
(D) For

Q305.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) Moreover
(B) Then
(C) But
(D) Yet

Q306.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) more
(B) most
(C) much
(D) many

Q307.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 4.
(A) grand
(B) weighty
(C) massive
(D) bulk

Q308.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) like
(B) thus
(C) such
(D) as

Q309.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) from
(B) for
(C) as
(D) since

Q310.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) have
(B) were
(C) had
(D) is

Q311.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) on
(B) off
(C) about
(D) at

Q312.
Select the nearest homonym of the given word.
Accept
(A) Accent
(B) Expect
(C) Except
(D) Expert

Q313.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Prefferance
(B) Preservation
(C) Preponderance
(D) Perseverance

Q314.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Allimony
(B) Structural
(C) Hallucinate
(D) Halloween

Q315.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Submisive
(B) Validity
(C) Kaleidoscope
(D) Animation

Q316.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Receipt
(B) Technically
(C) Harrasment
(D) Vaccinate

Q317.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Anxiety
(B) Preparation
(C) Voluntary
(D) Stetionery

Q318.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Felicitate
(B) Cotarminous
(C) Ambient
(D) Announce

Q319.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Hinterland
(B) Haughty
(C) Drifter
(D) Bellweather

Q320.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Believe
(B) Audible
(C) Throat
(D) Pronounciation

Q321.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Sufficeint
(B) Syrup
(C) Superior
(D) Shrubbery

Q322.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Oligopoly
(B) Xylophone
(C) Zenith
(D) Robbust

Q323.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Dearth
(B) Acceptible
(C) Corrupt
(D) Barely

Q324.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Tour
(B) Triumph
(C) Sandwitch
(D) Process
