==============================================================================
FILE      : SSC_CPO_2022_EN.txt
SOURCE PDF: ssc_papers/merged/SSC_CPO_2022_EN.pdf
SUBJECT   : English Comprehension
QUESTIONS : 447
==============================================================================

Q1.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
Everyone was surprised / at his indefatigable courage and determination / to achieve
what he desired.
(A) Everyone was surprised
(B) To achieve what he desired
(C) No error
(D) At his indefatigable courage and determination

Q2.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
As is usual with stories of this genre, / in spite of their varying socio political realities,
/ the youngsters have fallen in love / with each other madly.
(A) the youngsters have fallen in love
(B) with each other madly
(C) in spite of their varying socio political realities
(D) As is usual with stories of this genre

Q3.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
Psychology has been / defined the scientific study of / human psyche and behaviour.
(A) defined the scientific study of
(B) Psychology has been
(C) human psyche and behaviour
(D) No error

Q4.
Identify the sentence that correctly uses the indefinite article.
(A) Cloud seeding involves use of chemicals that target rain-bearing clouds above a catchment area such as an river, reservoir or an lake.
(B) Cloud seeding involves use of chemicals that target rain-bearing clouds above a catchment area such as a river, reservoir or a lake.
(C) Cloud seeding involves use of chemicals that target rain-bearing clouds above an catchment area such as a river, reservoir or an lake.
(D) Cloud seeding involves use of chemicals that target rain-bearing clouds above an catchment area such as an river, reservoir or a lake.

Q5.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
Fortunately, he passed the exams / with dint of / sheer hard work and diligence.
(A) sheer hard work and diligence
(B) with dint of
(C) No error
(D) Fortunately, he passed the exams

Q6.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
The research fellow defended / his thesis scholarly / and obtained the degree.
(A) No error
(B) his thesis scholarly
(C) and obtained the degree
(D) The research fellow defended

Q7.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
Even when the child accused the relative of inappropriate behaviour, the parents
continued to play perfect hosts at the party instead of addressing the elephant in the
room.
(A) Ignoring someone who seeks attention through false stories
(B) Punishing someone for inappropriate behaviour
(C) Revealing the secrets
(D) A big problem everyone is ignoring or afraid to talk about

Q8.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
He took a hurried glance / on the newspaper / and swiftly left for work.
(A) and swiftly left for work
(B) He took a hurried glance
(C) on the newspaper
(D) No error

Q9.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
The most frequent medallion composition on a carpet consists of a more or less
elaborate motif superimposed on the centre of a patterned field and often
complemented with corner pieces, which are typically quardants of the central
medallion.
(A) medallion
(B) elaborate
(C) complemented
(D) quardant

Q10.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
The knight was received / compliments from the king / for his bravery.
(A) No error
(B) for his bravery
(C) compliments from the king
(D) The knight was received

Q11.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
The investors were / put off by the dirty / visage of the workshop.
(A) visage of the workshop
(B) put off by the dirty
(C) No error
(D) The investors were

Q12.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
The helicopter of the enemies / hovered exact / over their bunker.
(A) No error
(B) hovered exact
(C) The helicopter of the enemies
(D) over their bunker.

Q13.
Identify the sentence that correctly uses the indefinite article.
(A) ‘Amateur’ is a noun which refers to a person who takes part in an activity as a hobby or for pleasure and not as a job.
(B) ‘Amateur’ is a noun which refers to a person who takes part in an activity as a hobby or for pleasure and not as an job.
(C) ‘Amateur’ is a noun which refers to an person who takes part in an activity as a hobby or for pleasure and not as a job.
(D) ‘Amateur’ is a noun which refers to a person who takes part in a activity as a hobby or for pleasure and not as a job.

Q14.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
He was enough tall / to be admitted / into the armed forces.
(A) into the armed forces
(B) to be admitted
(C) No error
(D) He was enough tall

Q15.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
He has always been / quite careless for / his own safety.
(A) quite careless for
(B) He has always been
(C) No error
(D) his own safety

Q16.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
My granny says that / it is quite all right / to get married young, / though I do not
absolute agree with her a bit on this.
(A) My granny says that
(B) though I do not absolute agree with her a bit on this
(C) it is quite all right
(D) to get married young

Q17.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
His cellphone is / different and costlier / than mine.
(A) No error
(B) than mine
(C) His cellphone is
(D) different and costlier

Q18.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
It is wise to sit on the fence and not become a party to another World War.
(A) A person's lack of decisiveness, neutrality or hesitance to choose between two sides in an argument or a competition
(B) Overtaking the thing of interest that the other parties are fighting for while they are fighting
(C) Defending the no man’s land
(D) Become a peacemaker between two fighting or competing parties.

Q19.
Select the option that substitutes the bracketed word-segment correctly and
completes the sentence meaningfully.
Covid- 19 pandemic has resulted in (an slow change in flowing of capital) generated by
workers.
(A) an deliberate change to flow of capital
(B) a sluggish change in the flow of capital
(C) an abrupt change in the flow of capital
(D) an sudden change to flow of capital

Q20.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
As Simon had already been to the park, he lead the way for the other children.
(A) leading the way
(B) lead away
(C) led the way
(D) No substitution required

Q21.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
Between Raima and Saima, the former is intelligent, while the latter is beautiful.
(A) later is
(B) letter is
(C) No substitution required
(D) later was

Q22.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
Their vision was very clear: if Indians were to play a meaningful role in the community
of nations, they must be second to none in the application of advanced technologies
to their real-life problems.
(A) mistreatment
(B) implementation
(C) corruption
(D) misuse

Q23.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
Psychology and Sociology are very interesting science to study.
(A) science to studies
(B) science for study
(C) No substitution required
(D) sciences to study

Q24.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Vishnu was a naughty little boy, but I couldn’t help having a soft spot for him.
(A) liking someone immediately
(B) getting on extremely well with someone
(C) doing something good for someone you have done something bad to in the past
(D) feeling a lot of affection for one particular person, often without knowing why

Q25.
Select the most appropriate idiom from the following options that can substitute the
underlined part of the given sentence.
Sometimes doing something that makes it impossible to return to the previous
situation later strengthens you.
(A) Painting the town red
(B) Knocking your socks off
(C) Burning your bridges
(D) A red-letter day

Q26.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
He and his father take a ride every morning to the top of the hill.
(A) taking a ride
(B) No substitution required
(C) takes an ride
(D) takes a ride

Q27.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
Jeremy does not like to discuss his personnel problems openly.
(A) No substitution required
(B) personnel problem
(C) personal problems
(D) person problem

Q28.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
Spices have exhibited numerous health benefits in preventing and treating a wide
variety of diseases such as cancer, ageing, metabolic, neurological, cardiovascular
and inflamatory diseases.
(A) inflamatory
(B) neurological
(C) numerous
(D) metabolic

Q29.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
She paid a high price for the clothes she brought at the boutique.
(A) bring at
(B) bought at
(C) No substitution required
(D) brought to

Q30.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
His last trip around the world taking a toll on his health.
(A) took a toll
(B) taken a toll
(C) No substitution required
(D) take a toll

Q31.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
By the time his friends woke up, he had already begun his journey.
(A) begin
(B) No substitution required
(C) began
(D) beginning

Q32.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
This is the worse famine this country has seen in a decade.
(A) most worse
(B) very worst
(C) No substitution required
(D) the worst

Q33.
Which of the following statements in the light of the given passage is FALSE?
(A) Future economic growth will be reliant on middle class and middle class’s development will be dependent on economic growth.
(B) China’s middle class is currently smaller than India’s middle class.
(C) India’s middle class will be significantly larger and younger than other countries, like China.
(D) A huge population is expected to escape poverty and reach the middle class.

Q34.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the following
sentence.
Dr. Brahm Prakash advised me to take care of the performance degraders and
cautioned me against seeking optimal performance from the participating work
centres.
(A) minimum
(B) faulty
(C) worst
(D) best

Q35.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In case
no improvement is needed, select 'No improvement required'.
In order to succeed in life, we need to work instead waste time.
(A) despite wasting time
(B) No improvement required
(C) in spite of wasting time
(D) instead of wasting time

Q36.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
With tear eyes, she said goodbye to her dear friend.
(A) teary eyes
(B) tear up eyes
(C) No substitution required
(D) tearing eyes

Q37.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
The application of the medicine seemed to lesson his pain.
(A) No substitution required
(B) lesion
(C) lessen
(D) lessoned

Q38.
Identify the sentence that correctly uses the indefinite article.
(A) In an big city like Mumbai, we see lot of rubbish being thrown from households and factories.
(B) In big city like Mumbai, we see a lot of rubbish being thrown from households and factories.
(C) In a big city like Mumbai, we see a lot of rubbish being thrown from households and factories.
(D) In a big city like Mumbai, we see an lot of rubbish being thrown from households and factories.

Q39.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
Sia is always afraid of loosing her favourite doll.
(A) of losing
(B) to loosing
(C) No substitution required
(D) for loosing

Q40.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
When grandmother found her granddaughter’s collection like her numismatist
daughter’s, she knew her granddaughter is a chip off the old block.
(A) Changed
(B) A person who is similar in behaviour or actions to his/her parents
(C) Damaged
(D) Getting obsessed

Q41.
Read the given sentence and select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word ‘Sane’
from the following options.
We started the day by going on a crazy ride, then we had a delicious lunch and then
beautiful sightseeing to end the evening.
(A) end
(B) beautiful
(C) delicious
(D) crazy

Q42.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
You can ask Mr. Dinakar for anything; he would give you the shirt off his back.
(A) is willing to do anything to help another person
(B) is a person who makes the decisions
(C) is a person who is selfish
(D) is a person who is arrogant

Q43.
Read the given sentence and select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word
‘Dilemma’ from the following options.
The solutions given for the frequently asked questions were written so poorly that the
buyers disliked the products.
(A) disliked
(B) poorly
(C) frequently
(D) solution

Q44.
Read the given sentence and select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word
‘Straighten’ from the following options.
The soldiers were crouching and crawling behind the fence to take a better shot at the
enemies and surprise them.
(A) fence
(B) crouching
(C) surprise
(D) enemies

Q45.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
I always encouraging people to read books which I have enjoyed reading myself.
(A) encourage people to read books
(B) encouraged people read books
(C) am encouraged people reading books
(D) encourage people to be reading books

Q46.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
The flames of the fire leap into the air.
(A) No substitution required
(B) leap in
(C) leapt into
(D) leaping into

Q47.
Select the most appropriate idiom from the following options that can substitute the
underlined part of the given sentence.
He is the most successful businessman. One of his traits is to take risk.
(A) Throw caution to the wind
(B) Talk through his hat
(C) Fill somebody’s shoes
(D) Tighten his belt

Q48.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the following
sentence.
Ideas are present in the consciousness, which when released and given scope to grow
and take shape, can lead to successful events.
(A) ignorance
(B) thoughtlessness
(C) awareness
(D) negligence

Q49.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
The graduate students have discovered that they can address issues more effectually
through letter writing campaignes and not through public demonstrations.
(A) address
(B) discovered
(C) campaignes
(D) demonstrations

Q50.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In case
no improvement is needed, select 'No improvement required'.
Sheila always went to get ice cream with her dad on Tuesdays.
(A) had gotten
(B) gone to get
(C) went to got
(D) No improvement required

Q51.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The mother-in-law deliberately rained on the new bride’s parade when she asked her to
change the dress of her choice.
(A) Force traditions upon someone
(B) Make someone tearful out of viciousness
(C) To spoil a moment
(D) Save one from embarrassment

Q52.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
The child was irritable / because she had not / soundly slept / the previous night.
(A) soundly slept
(B) The child was irritable
(C) the previous night
(D) because she had not

Q53.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Ms. Tina could finish the assignment by Friday - at a push, Wednesday.
(A) try very hard to do something, usually something nice
(B) probably possible, but it will be difficult
(C) make more of an effort
(D) using whatever methods are necessary

Q54.
Identify the sentence that correctly uses the indefinite article.
(A) A taco is a traditional Mexican dish consisting of a tortilla topped with a filling.
(B) A taco is a traditional Mexican dish consisting of an tortilla topped with filling.
(C) An taco is a traditional Mexican dish consisting of tortilla topped with filling.
(D) A taco is traditional Mexican dish consisting of a tortilla topped with an filling.

Q55.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
It is nothing else than / sheer foolishness that / you have decided / to resign.
(A) It is nothing else than
(B) sheer foolishness that
(C) to resign
(D) you have decided

Q56.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the italicised words in the given
sentence.
You get a good and comprehensive idea of the town from the clock tower situated in
the centre of the town.
(A) blind date
(B) body and soul
(C) bird’s eye view
(D) blind alley

Q57.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
“Mrs. Pooja is / very busy at / the moment.” / “All right. I had been waiting.”
(A) the moment.”
(B) “All right. I had been waiting.”
(C) very busy at
(D) “Mrs. Pooja is

Q58.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Seeing the danger of a group governed by old people, Ratan planned to recruit young
people for his project.
(A) adhocracy
(B) plutocracy
(C) gerontocracy
(D) autocracy

Q59.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Ms. Suma was a bit apprehensive about doing so much in just one day, but it was all
plain sailing.
(A) boring
(B) very easy
(C) mentally and physically exhausting
(D) risky

Q60.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the
given sentence.
None of the countries involved in war were ready to broach the issue of retreat.
(A) turn down thoughtlessly
(B) bring up for discussion
(C) underestimate the worth of
(D) disregard contemptuously

Q61.
Read the given sentence and select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word
‘Deplete’ from the following options.
Depletion of old things has become a fancy business as it brings back old memories
but at a high cost.
(A) restore
(B) old
(C) high
(D) fancy

Q62.
Select the correct meaning of the idiom in bold and italics.
Look, the devil is beating his wife. Do you think we'll see a rainbow?
(A) One who presents a counter argument
(B) If you have nothing to do, you are likely to do some mischief
(C) The sun is shining while it rains
(D) When someone comes in unexpectedly while being talked about

Q63.
Select the correct meaning of the idiom in bold and italics.
Our hearts go out to the families of the victims of this terrible tragedy.
(A) To receive or express praise for a job well done
(B) To feel sympathy for someone when they are distressed
(C) Well wishes for a deceased person
(D) To wish for things does not yield to anything

Q64.
Select the option that substitutes the bracketed word-segment correctly and
completes the sentence meaningfully.
Vicky and Deepa (tries their level best) to run from the ritual.
(A) had tries their level best
(B) try their level best
(C) have try their level best
(D) tries their best level

Q65.
Select the most appropriate idiom from the following options that can substitute the
underlined part of the given sentence.
It is his first interview, so he has a nervous feeling.
(A) Butterflies in his stomach
(B) A slap on the wrist
(C) Tug at his heartstrings
(D) Icing on the cake

Q66.
Select the correct meaning of the idiom in bold and italics.
Sometimes I just have to resort to the carrot and stick approach with my children.
(A) Mixture of rewards and punishments
(B) Waste one's efforts by pursuing the wrong thing or path
(C) Practically identical in appearance
(D) To be optimistic or enthusiastic

Q67.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In case
no improvement is needed, select 'No improvement required'.
What exactly is your problem with me?
(A) definitely is your
(B) entirely is your
(C) finally is your
(D) No improvement required

Q68.
Which of the following statements is NOT true according to the passage?
(A) The western disturbances cause dust storms in Rajasthan and nearby regions.
(B) Both, dust storms and thunderstorms occur due to similar weather conditions like intense heat.
(C) Thunderstorms occur where the air is dry.
(D) Cyclones and monsoon systems have been studied more than dust storms and thunderstorms.

Q69.
Choose the correct meaning of the underlined idiom in the given sentence.
With two toddlers to handle and no house help at her disposal, Shilpa can never put
her house in apple-pie order.
(A) Completely messy
(B) Smell-proof
(C) Completely arranged
(D) Ready for guests

Q70.
Select the idiom that can correctly replace the underlined part of the given sentence.
It was a very important meeting, but I stayed cool as ice because I knew our product
was the best.
(A) cool as a cake
(B) cool as a cucumber
(C) cool as a carrot
(D) cool as a cabbage

Q71.
Select the option that substitutes the bracketed word-segment correctly and
completes the sentence meaningfully.
Manthan and Pranav (sang together in a concert).
(A) chanted together in a show
(B) enunciated together in a show
(C) enjoined together in a show
(D) articulated together in a show

Q72.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Football fans are feeling proud of their teams when they win.
(A) felt proud to their teams
(B) feel proud of their teams
(C) are feel to proud of their teams
(D) feeling proud of their teams

Q73.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
The family's meeting on property dispute begins today and I'm just sitting down with a
cup of coffee, enjoying ___________.
(A) the better of
(B) the corridors of power
(C) the calm before the storm
(D) the bottom line

Q74.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Jason was sent to school in England, where he excelled academically and developed
an interest in theatre and writing.
(A) accomplished
(B) pursued
(C) continued
(D) failed

Q75.
Choose the correct meaning of the underlined idiom in the given sentence.
Blue blood is not necessarily a guarantee of one’s public decorum.
(A) A person belonging to a middle-class family
(B) A person belonging to an honest family
(C) A person belonging to a poor family
(D) A person belonging to a high family

Q76.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
Because of some inevitable circamstances, the conference was postponed indefinite,
indefinitely but the members could not be informed.
(A) Conference
(B) Circamstances
(C) Indefinite
(D) Inevitable

Q77.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
James Bernard was undoubtedly one of the greatest elocutionists of the world.
Everyone agreed that he possessed the ____________.
(A) yellow press
(B) fourth estate
(C) curtain lecture
(D) gift of the gab

Q78.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words.
A government that takes decisions based on the recommendations of state officials
instead of elected representatives
(A) Gerontocracy
(B) Democracy
(C) Autocracy
(D) Bureaucracy

Q79.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Antonio Stradivari was an Italian who is being made wonderful violins.
(A) who made wonderful
(B) who have made wonderful
(C) who is made wonderful
(D) who makes wonderful

Q80.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The scientific study of the behaviour, structure, physiology, classification and
distribution of animals
(A) Zoology
(B) Archaeology
(C) Petrology
(D) Ecology

Q81.
Choose the correct meaning of the underlined idiom in the given sentence.
Saira is unable to sustain friendships because she always has too many axes to grind.
(A) To work for others
(B) To have one’s own interests to serve
(C) To use weapons carefully
(D) To believe in selflessness

Q82.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
The villain of the play was hated by the audience.
(A) The audience hated the villain of the play.
(B) The villain hated the audience of the play.
(C) The audience had hated the villain of the play.
(D) The audience was hating the villain of the play.

Q83.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
The pyramids that you see in Egypt were built by the Pharoh dynasties who ruled the
ancient kingdom of Egypt for thousands of years.
(A) Ensure
(B) Pharoh
(C) Strategy
(D) Fulfillment

Q84.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
She is / the very ambitious woman / I have ever / come across.
(A) I have hard ever
(B) She is
(C) the very ambitious woman
(D) come across

Q85.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the words in the brackets in the
given sentence.
The bridge which (connecting) the two cities has been destroyed by the bomb.
(A) connected
(B) has connecting
(C) connects
(D) will be connecting

Q86.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined words
in the given sentence.
Can you explain to the person hired to drive our car, my everyday schedule?
(A) cardiologist
(B) conductor
(C) chauffeur
(D) calligrapher

Q87.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
Some colleagues at a workplace are really hard nuts to crack.
(A) Hardcore traditions in a family
(B) An inflexible person who is hard to convince
(C) Someone showing extra concern over little things
(D) An easy-goer who can be easily convinced

Q88.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The ship sank because the engineer has not called for help.
(A) was not call for help
(B) did not call for help
(C) will not call for help
(D) did not called for help

Q89.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
A wise man remains aware of fair-weather friends.
(A) A person from an area of pleasant weather
(B) A person with good knowledge of weather
(C) A helpful person
(D) A person not reliable in difficult time

Q90.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
A study of metaphysics is the study of the nature of realty, of what exists in the world,
what it is like and how it is ordered.
(A) metaphysics
(B) study
(C) nature
(D) realty

Q91.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
I like to meeting of people who have travelled widely.
(A) like meeting people
(B) like meet to people
(C) like to be meeting people
(D) will like meeting with people

Q92.
Select the correct meaning of the idiom in bold and italics.
I had a close shave this morning – my car was hit badly by a bull.
(A) In a position where one might receive severe criticism
(B) To be carrying a wild look
(C) To request someone to stay calm and not get annoyed
(D) A narrow escape

Q93.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Go round in circles
(A) Be forced to explain your actions and probably be punished
(B) Make no progress in an argument or discussion
(C) Become very confused when you are trying to explain something
(D) Believe something good about someone even though you could believe either good or bad

Q94.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
She has checked everything she needs before started work.
(A) before starts work
(B) before start to working
(C) before start working
(D) before starting work

Q95.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the underlined segment in the given sentence.
I took a quick trip to my cousin’s house before going on vacation to Africa.
(A) Break the journey
(B) Paid a flying visit
(C) Lived out of a suitcase
(D) Float one’s boat

Q96.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
I will be gone to buy a cupboard which will fit under the stairs.
(A) am going to buy
(B) will going to buy
(C) am going to buying
(D) will be buy

Q97.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The dance performance was more beautifuler than I expected.
(A) was more beautiful
(B) was beautiful
(C) was most beautiful
(D) is being more beautiful

Q98.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word to fill in the blank.
All the__________ (delicate) things were kept/packed in a different box while shifting
to a new place.
(A) crude
(B) durable
(C) coarse
(D) fragile

Q99.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
It was delightful to heard the baby’s voice.
(A) was delightful to be heard
(B) was delightful to hear
(C) was delightful to be hear
(D) was delightful to hearing

Q100.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
After the severe bus accident, they tried to identify the victims, but the bodies were
too manlged to be investigated.
(A) investigated
(B) accident
(C) manlged
(D) victims

Q101.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
Food spoliage refers to an irreversible modification in which food becomes inedible or
its quality is compromised.
(A) irreversible
(B) spoliage
(C) modification
(D) inedible

Q102.
Substitute one word for the italicised expression.
The Bishop criticised the Government for its having no sympathy and an uncaring
attitude to the homeless and the unemployed.
(A) merciful
(B) callous
(C) tender
(D) compassionate

Q103.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
I am sure you can win the match if you try hardly.
(A) if you try hard
(B) if you are trying hardly
(C) if you trying hard
(D) if you will try hardly

Q104.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
The movie was being released on Friday.
(A) They were releasing the movie on Friday.
(B) The movie is being released on Friday.
(C) They are releasing the movie on Friday.
(D) They have been releasing the movie on Friday.

Q105.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
She blew the candles on the cake.
(A) The candles on the cake were blew by her.
(B) The candles on the cake were blown by her.
(C) The candles on the cake were being blown by her.
(D) The candles on the cake is blown by her.

Q106.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
When the weather is hot, I will like to eat ice cream.
(A) I shall like to eat
(B) I liked to eat
(C) I like to eat
(D) I should like to eat

Q107.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Treat with a vaccine, usually by injection to promote immunity against a disease
(A) Innuendo
(B) Inoculate
(C) Innumerate
(D) Innovate

Q108.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
You must not insists on help people who don’t want it.
(A) insist for helping
(B) insist on helping
(C) insists of help
(D) insist to help

Q109.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Get on like a house on fire
(A) Like someone immediately
(B) Get on extremely well with someone
(C) Feel a lot of affection for one particular person, often without knowing why
(D) Do something good for someone you have done something bad to in the past

Q110.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words/phrase.
Cause to continue; keep up; preserve (a state of affairs, an activity etc)
(A) maintop
(B) mainly
(C) maintain
(D) mainstay

Q111.
Select the most appropriate idiom from the following options that can substitute the
underlined part of the given sentence.
He is a disgrace to his family.
(A) A fish out of water
(B) A white elephant
(C) A lone wolf
(D) A black sheep

Q112.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The officers kept us waiting for one hour.
(A) We were kept waiting for one hour by the officers.
(B) We kept waiting for one hour.
(C) We keep waiting for one hour.
(D) We are keeping waiting for one hour.

Q113.
Select the most appropriate synonym to replace the italicised word.
The smoke was bothering me, and I didn't want to ruin the party for all of you, so I
simply walked home.
(A) despoil
(B) fix
(C) revamp
(D) recover

Q114.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The speaker is about to beginner his speech.
(A) was about to began
(B) was about to beginner
(C) is about to begin
(D) is about to beginning

Q115.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
I am not afraid to spoke the truth.
(A) am not afraid to speaking
(B) am not afraid to speak
(C) was not afraid to spoken
(D) was not afraid to spoke

Q116.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the sentence given below.
The detective suspected Shyam because of his odd behaviour while investing in the
scam.
(A) To hang fire
(B) To bite the dust
(C) A dog in the manger
(D) To smell a rat

Q117.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
I enjoy to be laugh at my little brother.
(A) am enjoy to laughing at
(B) enjoy laughed at
(C) enjoy laughing at
(D) have enjoy laughing at

Q118.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
He is a weak student and somehow pulled over the exams.
(A) pulled through
(B) pulled down
(C) pulled up
(D) pulled together

Q119.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
If Rajat had realised that Meena was in destress, he would have definitely done
something to bail her out.
(A) bail
(B) definitely
(C) destress
(D) realised

Q120.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
China expects to welcome back Indian students to resume their studies in the country.
(A) cease
(B) usher
(C) presume
(D) announce

Q121.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the given group of words.
The action or offence of speaking sacrilegiously about God or sacred things
(A) Contamination
(B) Irreverence
(C) Blasphemy
(D) Renunciation

Q122.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who introduces the performers or contestants in a variety show
(A) Calligrapher
(B) Compeer
(C) Compere
(D) Cypher

Q123.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
She has let herself be gone after her divorce.
(A) let herself go
(B) let herself gone
(C) let her go in
(D) let herself going

Q124.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word to fill in the blank.
The curving rod offers the _________ (mirage) of a larger and spacious bathtub.
(A) reflexes
(B) fission
(C) illusion
(D) virtual

Q125.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
You must cut off your expenses if you want to save money.
(A) cut out
(B) cut down on
(C) cut for
(D) cut up

Q126.
Choose the correct meaning of the underlined idiom in the given sentence.
The accident site had become a bear garden by afternoon.
(A) A place of noise and disturbance
(B) A peaceful place
(C) A soothing environment
(D) Unclean and dirty

Q127.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the capitalised word in the given sentence.
Affluent people tend to look upon illiteracy with comfortable DETACHMENT.
(A) Justice
(B) Humour
(C) Neutrality
(D) Subjectivity

Q128.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the following sentence.
Rajib is not only an extremely reputed conoisseur of art but also a successful
entrepreneur.
(A) conoisseur
(B) reputed
(C) entrepreneur
(D) successful

Q129.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence
The child felt down from a great height.
(A) child fallen down
(B) child fall down
(C) child fell down
(D) child falling down

Q130.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
After a tiring day, the workers decided to ____________ to restore their energy.
(A) have an axe to grind
(B) put a spoke in the wheel
(C) bring to book
(D) hit the sack

Q131.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
In the movie ‘Encanto’, the family thought Bruno was a black sheep.
(A) Disgrace for the family
(B) Unrelated to the family
(C) Danger to the family
(D) Unloved by the family

Q132.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The arrangement of events or dates in the order of their occurrence
(A) Chronology
(B) Axiom
(C) Serially
(D) Docket

Q133.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Rajeshwar has a vision for capturing beautiful pictures of nature.
(A) An eagle eye
(B) A high horse
(C) Cry wolf
(D) A cat nap

Q134.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The scene of Ratan’s friend’s bike accident remains stamped in his memory.
(A) approved
(B) scary
(C) shunned
(D) imprinted

Q135.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Pankaj always tries his best to uphold the reputation of his institution.
(A) opinion
(B) position
(C) prestige
(D) growth

Q136.
Select the most appropriate phrase for the underlined segment in the given sentence.
She brought new ideas for the innovative promotion of the product.
(A) Draw on
(B) Swept off
(C) Came up with
(D) Carry off

Q137.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The quality of being honest and having strong moral principles
(A) Stuck-up
(B) Integrity
(C) Uptight
(D) Ridicule

Q138.
Select the most appropriate synonym to replace the italicised word.
If you feel good, then you will portray that attitude and look fabulous no matter what!
(A) distort
(B) garble
(C) falsify
(D) depict

Q139.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
So delicate or precise as to be difficult to analyse or describe
(A) Suitable
(B) Subtle
(C) Complex
(D) Anagram

Q140.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Jack played hide and seek.
(A) Hide and seek was played by Jack.
(B) Hide and seek had been played by Jack.
(C) Hide and seek will be played by Jack.
(D) Hide and seek is played by Jack.

Q141.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM for the underlined word in the following
sentence.
This is really an attractive painting made by the novice artist.
(A) Mature
(B) Expert
(C) Stylish
(D) Apprentice

Q142.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words/phrase.
Showing astute powers of judgement; clever and judicious
(A) Shriek
(B) Shrift
(C) Shrewd
(D) Shrike

Q143.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who does a thing for pleasure and not as a profession
(A) Performer
(B) Amateur
(C) Professional
(D) Ascetic

Q144.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Cutting corners
(A) Investing in MNCs to get better returns and exchange
(B) Doing something poorly in order to save time or money
(C) Stitching clothes with a unique design
(D) Cutting the edges to make it small and round

Q145.
Which of the following statements is NOT true?
(A) Social media can offer a substitute for real-life social interaction.
(B) Lack of social interaction may cause anxiety and depression.
(C) Social bonds have a strong influence on our mental health.
(D) Humans need to reassess their social media usage.

Q146.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who regards the whole world as his country
(A) Convalescent
(B) Countryman
(C) Metropolitan
(D) Cosmopolitan

Q147.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Why should I be suspect by you?
(A) I been suspected
(B) I been suspect
(C) I have been suspect
(D) I be suspected

Q148.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
He leaves behind an indelible contribution to the financial world.
(A) temporary
(B) futile
(C) durable
(D) solitary

Q149.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Left, right and centre
(A) To have been happening for a long time and there is a lot of activity
(B) Happening in a lot of places or to a lot of people
(C) Start well
(D) The news went from one person to the next

Q150.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the capitalised word in the given sentence.
The favouritism of the boss led to many DISGRUNTLED employees.
(A) Disturbed
(B) Determined
(C) Pleased
(D) Miserable

Q151.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A happy development or happening of events by chance.
(A) Incident
(B) Suddenly
(C) Serendipity
(D) Occurrence

Q152.
Select the most appropriate synonym to replace the italicised word.
Sneha opened the cupboards and glanced over her meagre supply of canned goods.
(A) surplus
(B) plenteous
(C) bountiful
(D) scanty

Q153.
Inferring from passage, what is the most practical way of reducing the health risk of
subway life?
(A) Wearing face masks during journey
(B) Opting for other transportation modes
(C) Reducing subway commutation
(D) Generating ventilation systems

Q154.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
They are looking to a place to rest.
(A) have looking at
(B) should be looking
(C) are looking for
(D) looking into

Q155.
Select the most appropriate phrase for the underlined segment in the given sentence.
My mother said, “You must pay attention to your studies.”
(A) Concentrate on
(B) Back up
(C) Act up to
(D) Ask for

Q156.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
To become a strong person in spite of many difficulties.
(A) Anxious
(B) Triggered
(C) Safe
(D) Resilient

Q157.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The dacoit was shot from up close by the police officer.
(A) Milksop
(B) Smell a rat
(C) Point blank
(D) Bullet proof

Q158.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the capitalised word in the given sentence.
The lunch menu includes some TEMPTING vegetarian offerings.
(A) Repelling
(B) Seductive
(C) Enticing
(D) Tantalising

Q159.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
He is waiting upon you in the compound.
(A) waiting on
(B) waiting at
(C) waiting for
(D) waiting up

Q160.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
The ducks were not afraid of the fast moving water.
(A) Torrent
(B) Current
(C) Flood
(D) Overflow

Q161.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
The new management repeated its committment to the development of the deprived.
(A) committment
(B) development
(C) management
(D) deprived

Q162.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
A boy died after he was assaulted by a teacher in his school.
(A) scolded
(B) guarded
(C) warned
(D) criticised

Q163.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
He wanted to buy some books, but his purse did not permit that.
(A) warrant
(B) patent
(C) grant
(D) tolerate

Q164.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To judge a book by its cover
(A) To strictly follow the rules
(B) To be good at evaluating people
(C) To evaluate people’s worth by their outward appearance
(D) To understand a difficult situation

Q165.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To throw caution to the wind
(A) To do something carefully
(B) To do something with caution
(C) To do something without worrying about the risk
(D) To do something after thinking about the result

Q166.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
At the drop of a dime
(A) A way of saying that you are happy to see someone
(B) Something that is not popular
(C) Something that can happen very fast without hesitation
(D) Extremely easy to understand

Q167.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
Sharks often use their serated or smooth teeth for seizing prey, cutting or crushing.
(A) serated
(B) prey
(C) seizing
(D) crushing

Q168.
Select the most appropriate phrase for the underlined segment in the given sentence.
They are rivals and cannot work together in harmony
(A) Potter about
(B) Make up
(C) Put down
(D) Pull together

Q169.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The doctors have given off the case.
(A) given out
(B) given forth
(C) given up
(D) given over

Q170.
Select the most appropriate option to replace the underlined word in the given
sentence.
Rama has been very unlucky in the last few years.
(A) unnerving
(B) hapless
(C) undeserving
(D) degraded

Q171.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Sugar tastes sweet.
(A) Sugar is sweet when it has been tasted sweet.
(B) Sugar is sweet when it is tasted.
(C) Sugar is sweet when tastes.
(D) Sugar is sweet when tasted.

Q172.
Substitute one word for the italicised expression.
When her teacher calls her a person who cannot be corrected, she laughs at herself.
(A) obedient
(B) reformable
(C) incorrigible
(D) manageable

Q173.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The lease of our house has run down.
(A) run into
(B) run apart
(C) run out
(D) run up to

Q174.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The evidence put forward could not confirm his guilt.
(A) Bring up
(B) Break down
(C) Bear up
(D) Blow off

Q175.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Some people are in the habit of sharing________ and bull story on unsuitable
occasions.
(A) fox
(B) wolf
(C) cock
(D) rooster

Q176.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined word in a sentence.
She was a brave woman but she felt daunted by the task ahead.
(A) bold
(B) intimidated
(C) appreciated
(D) encouraged

Q177.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the highlighted word.
He imputes his ability to play great football to an inspirational coach.
(A) validates
(B) contributes
(C) attributes
(D) amputates

Q178.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The story did not go by well enough.
(A) go through
(B) go down
(C) go off
(D) go into

Q179.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A letter, poem etc. whose author is unknown.
(A) Autonomous
(B) Anomalous
(C) Anonymous
(D) Autocrat

Q180.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
By hook or by crook
(A) Using a lot of energy and effort to do something
(B) Using whatever methods are necessary
(C) Making more of an effort
(D) Probably possible, but it will be difficult

Q181.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The owner underestimated the damage caused to the walls of the apartment.
(A) Calculated
(B) Charged
(C) Misled
(D) Exaggerated

Q182.
Select the most appropriate phrase for the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The judgment was rejected by the Chief Justice.
(A) Seen through
(B) Stand out
(C) Set aside
(D) Run in

Q183.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the capitalised word in the given sentence.
The fanatics are trying to OBSTRUCT the peace process.
(A) Disrupt
(B) Assist
(C) Spoil
(D) Repress

Q184.
Select the most appropriate synonym to replace the italicised word.
We also must do something about our mental and physical lethargy.
(A) eagerness
(B) enthusiasm
(C) hebetude
(D) vigour

Q185.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
He burnt his fingers by getting into others’ problems.
(A) To get rid off
(B) To get rewarded
(C) To get into trouble
(D) To burn ones fingers

Q186.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Evoking a keen sense of sadness or regret
(A) Pungent
(B) Poignant
(C) Impactful
(D) Unaffecting

Q187.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Crying wolf
(A) To be in pain by getting hit by something
(B) To frighten someone in your comfort zone
(C) To ask for help when you don’t need it
(D) To cry over little things that don’t matter

Q188.
Which of the following options has contributed to the expansion of the middle class?
(A) Evenly distributed economic opportunities
(B) Increased private consumption
(C) Increased workforce percentage
(D) Increased foreign investment

Q189.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A place for storage of arms and ammunition
(A) Wardrobe
(B) Warehouse
(C) Granary
(D) Arsenal

Q190.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The scientific study of worms and insects
(A) Entomology
(B) Anatomy
(C) Zoology
(D) Anemology

Q191.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
The discovery of treasure under the Bermuda Triangle is probably a hoax.
(A) Analogy
(B) Bonanza
(C) Delusion
(D) Trick

Q192.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Up in the air
(A) Something that is tossed up in the air
(B) Something that is certain and decided
(C) Something that is unknown entirely
(D) Something that is invisible and unattainable

Q193.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Someone who does not believe that God exists
(A) Devotee
(B) Atheist
(C) Priest
(D) Nun

Q194.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Hold your horses
(A) To keep the horse chain intact
(B) Holding and keeping things by yourself
(C) Give time to others for some rest
(D) To tell someone to stop and consider carefully

Q195.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To give someone the cold shoulder
(A) To ignore someone
(B) To carry the burden of everyone
(C) To be carried on someone’s back
(D) To listen to someone with empathy

Q196.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words/phrase.
Take hold of forcibly or suddenly
(A) Seize
(B) Liberate
(C) Release
(D) Relinquish

Q197.
What is the purpose of social media sites?
(A) To provide a platform to replace physical interaction
(B) To provide a platform to decrease loneliness
(C) To keep people online by capturing their interests
(D) To offer a platform for people with anxiety and depression

Q198.
Select the most appropriate synonym to replace the italicised word.
Colossal granite obelisks were erected by only a few kings.
(A) Gigantic
(B) Lilliputian
(C) Minute
(D) Minuscule

Q199.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
How did you come about his purse?
(A) come into
(B) come off
(C) come out
(D) come by

Q200.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
Nine times out of ten, he tells lies.
(A) All the time
(B) Hardly
(C) In most cases
(D) Sometimes

Q201.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Try hard to do or achieve something
(A) Endanger
(B) Hardworking
(C) Endeavour
(D) Indent

Q202.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Taking heed or care; being conscious
(A) Mindful
(B) Mindless
(C) Mindset
(D) Mind-read

Q203.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Person living at the same time
(A) Contemporary
(B) Coquette
(C) Cosmopolitan
(D) Connoisseur

Q204.
Select the most appropriate option to replace the underlined word in the given
sentence.
There is no reason for him to be angry.
(A) logic
(B) sanity
(C) lucidity
(D) argument

Q205.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who takes a dark view of things
(A) Pedant
(B) Periscope
(C) Polyglot
(D) Pessimist

Q206.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The one who makes maps and charts
(A) Artist
(B) Cartographer
(C) Geographer
(D) Sculptor

Q207.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Profitable, yielding financial gain
(A) Ludicrous
(B) Lucrative
(C) Luddite
(D) Lugger

Q208.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who is bad in spellings
(A) Cacographer
(B) Photographer
(C) Choreographer
(D) Chauvinist

Q209.
Select the suitable word given in the passage which means ‘areas of land under the
jurisdiction of a ruler or state’.
(A) Territories
(B) Contemporaries
(C) Population
(D) Mysteries

Q210.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Someone who is reserved and shy
(A) Social
(B) Extrovert
(C) Recessive
(D) Introvert

Q211.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Sting operations use subterfuge to obtain material for stories.
(A) Society
(B) Policy
(C) Suspicion
(D) Honesty

Q212.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Killing of a person by another
(A) Homicide
(B) Democide
(C) Genocide
(D) Euthanasia

Q213.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The main character in a story.
(A) Antagonist
(B) Protagonist
(C) Leader
(D) Player

Q214.
Select the sentence that uses the idiom correctly.
(A) Flowers bloom under the weather.
(B) Trees shed their leaves under the weather.
(C) She missed the exam as she felt under the weather.
(D) Reena was walking on the lawn under the weather.

Q215.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Against the clock
(A) Running faster with a clock in hand
(B) In a great hurry, as fast as possible
(C) Running faster without a clock
(D) Race with others to win

Q216.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Honour given for some achievement.
(A) Placard
(B) Laurel
(C) Party
(D) Gift

Q217.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who believes in his fate
(A) Fatalist
(B) Fastidious
(C) Fugitive
(D) Fanatic

Q218.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who knows all things
(A) Omniscient
(B) Omnipotent
(C) Oligarchy
(D) Ostracise

Q219.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
As good as gold
(A) A person who is obedient and well-behaved
(B) A person who loves gold
(C) A person who is good like gold but not better
(D) A golden person

Q220.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
So far so good
(A) Not impressed with how things are
(B) Things are going well so far
(C) No improvement in the work being done
(D) Good things can go far away

Q221.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the highlighted word.
I was in a quandary whether to accept the proposal or not.
(A) rage
(B) reluctance
(C) dilemma
(D) sundry

Q222.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
A slap on the wrist
(A) Punishment to an innocent.
(B) Suggest something secretly.
(C) A very mild punishment.
(D) Beating someone too much on the wrist.

Q223.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words/phrase.
Rarely; not often
(A) habitually
(B) seldom
(C) frequently
(D) routinely

Q224.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The subordinates will vituperate us when they are irritated.
(A) Blame
(B) Abuse
(C) Praise
(D) Demean

Q225.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To pull someone’s leg
(A) To talk something bad about someone
(B) To talk something good about someone
(C) To joke with someone
(D) To push a person

Q226.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A group of worshippers
(A) Posse
(B) Caravan
(C) Constellation
(D) Congregation

Q227.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To make matters worse
(A) No matter can become worse
(B) Sometimes situation can become worse
(C) Make the situation worse
(D) Matters can be worse

Q228.
How does the passage describe Black Death?
(A) The first wave of the second plague pandemic
(B) The worst specimen of human created tragedy
(C) The specimen of human evolution and its evidence
(D) The initiator of all the future pandemics

Q229.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The penitent husband spends days at his wife's grave.
(A) Unrepentant
(B) Sorry
(C) Penniless
(D) Pertinent

Q230.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The entire environment was very hostile towards us.
(A) Antagonistic
(B) Favourable
(C) Accurate
(D) Handy

Q231.
Select the most appropriate synonym to replace the italicised word.
The little girl had obsequious manners.
(A) mischievous
(B) defiant
(C) headstrong
(D) law-abiding

Q232.
Identify the correct antonym for the following word.
With her spry and athletic build, she won the race easily.
(A) Agile
(B) Lethargic
(C) Sleuth
(D) Workaholic

Q233.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Be on the breadline
(A) Having plenty of money
(B) Find a successful way of making money
(C) Earn a lot of money very easily
(D) Be very poor

Q234.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A large group of people
(A) Convocation
(B) Flock
(C) Herd
(D) Horde

Q235.
Choose the correct spelling of the underlined word.
The school calander this year has turned out really nice.
(A) celender
(B) calendar
(C) calunder
(D) calender

Q236.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Salt of the earth
(A) Do anything possible
(B) A very good and honest person
(C) Discovered after a lot of searching
(D) Choose one at random

Q237.
Select the most appropriate synonym to replace the italicised word.
A shadow of guilt darkened his eyes.
(A) remorselessness
(B) innocence
(C) remorse
(D) impenitence

Q238.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Sukhen always seeks to capitalise on opportunities.
(A) dismantle
(B) destroy
(C) forfeit
(D) seize

Q239.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Spurious medicine can be fatal to the patient.
(A) Genuine
(B) Inferior
(C) Contemptuous
(D) Virtuous

Q240.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To stand one's ground
(A) To maintain one’s position
(B) To fight for the same position
(C) To stand up
(D) To stand in one’s own land

Q241.
Which hormone is released in our minds when we receive a positive reaction to our
posts on social media?
(A) Adrenaline
(B) Dopamine
(C) Calcitonin
(D) Melatonin

Q242.
Select the most suitable title for the given passage.
(A) Middle Class and Economic Growth
(B) Dropping Domestic Savings in the USA
(C) Favourable Demographic Trends in India
(D) Rise of the Middle Class in India

Q243.
How can regular-looking humpbacks trick whale watchers?
(A) By posting tweets on Twitter
(B) By appearing secretly and unexpectedly
(C) By showing their white coloured bellies
(D) By displaying their huge size

Q244.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Call it a day
(A) Call it as a bad day
(B) Stop thinking in daytime
(C) Call it as a good and productive day
(D) Stop working on something

Q245.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Be hard hit
(A) An extreme struggle
(B) To speak something unpleasant
(C) Severely affected by something unpleasant
(D) To hit someone hard

Q246.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Belly laugh
(A) Mocking someone
(B) Laughing with inhibition
(C) A loud and unrestrained laugh
(D) To be subjected to mockery and ridicule

Q247.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Get a second wind
(A) To retell the same story
(B) To have renewed energy
(C) To commit the same mistake
(D) To get a second chance

Q248.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Hang in there
(A) To remain unresolved
(B) To give up completely
(C) To spend time with people
(D) To persist in a difficult situation

Q249.
Select the option in which all the words are spelt correctly.
(A) Ritu is defecient in calcium.
(B) Ritu is deficient in calcium.
(C) Ritu is defisient in calcium.
(D) Ritu is daficient in calcium.

Q250.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the highlighted word.
The crowds gathered were partisan in nature.
(A) pitiful
(B) Kind
(C) biased
(D) Destructive

Q251.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Wet blanket
(A) One who acts stupidly
(B) One who spoils other people’s fun
(C) One who is frequently ill
(D) One who cannot be trusted

Q252.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
At the eleventh hour
(A) Time for debate
(B) Very late in the evening
(C) A state of confusion
(D) Just before the deadline

Q253.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Heart and soul
(A) With complete honesty
(B) Front to front
(C) With all the effort you can put
(D) Feeling sympathy for someone

Q254.
_________ and _________ were the foundation of Ghana’s trade in ancient times.
(A) Woollen clothes; luxurious items
(B) Leather goods; slaves
(C) Gold; salt
(D) Camel; caravans

Q255.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
It is never advisable to have an axe to ________.
(A) kill
(B) rotate
(C) replace
(D) grind

Q256.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
He was beaming from ear to ear.
(A) Playing
(B) Smiling broadly
(C) Criticising bitterly
(D) Working

Q257.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Hatred
(A) Malleable
(B) Malevolence
(C) Magnanimous
(D) Malapropos

Q258.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
A lot on one’s plate
(A) To eat a lot
(B) A lot to do
(C) To have a serious ailment
(D) To serve all dishes on one plate

Q259.
Select the most appropriate title for the given passage.
(A) Advantages of Social Media
(B) Consequences of Social Media
(C) Social Media and Mental Health
(D) Mental Health During Troubled Times

Q260.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Beside oneself
(A) Almost out of one’s senses
(B) In the secret
(C) Under all conditions
(D) To stand for one’s own fault

Q261.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Wild goose chase
(A) Doing something crazy
(B) Working very hard for something
(C) To betray someone
(D) Futile search

Q262.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
My teacher asked me to compress the file.
(A) Search
(B) Trace
(C) Enlarge
(D) Turn

Q263.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To beat a retreat
(A) To make a situation
(B) To leave a situation
(C) To solve a situation
(D) To face a situation

Q264.
Select the one-word substitute from the passage for the given group of words.
Rapid or sudden rise
(A) Caravans
(B) Ousted
(C) Upsurge
(D) Ancient

Q265.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
In seventh heaven
(A) Extremely sad
(B) Seven-day birthday ceremony
(C) In the presence of God
(D) Extremely happy

Q266.
Select the suitable word given in the passage which means ‘turn over with a sudden
quick movement’.
(A) Albino
(B) Flip
(C) Humpback
(D) Lodge

Q267.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
His explanation is always concise.
(A) Frank
(B) Precise
(C) Lengthy
(D) Intelligent

Q268.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
All ears
(A) To scold someone bitterly
(B) To listening attentively
(C) To listen to everyone
(D) To not be vocal

Q269.
Which of the following diseases is found commonly among workers in underground
subways?
(A) Abdominal
(B) Cardiovascular
(C) Renal
(D) Pulmonary

Q270.
Which of the following may be the probable origin of Black Death, according to the
passage?
(A) Kyrgyzstan
(B) India
(C) Mongolia
(D) China

Q271.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
He applied for the vacant post.
(A) Indistinct
(B) Empty
(C) Occupied
(D) Lucid

Q272.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
A mare’s nest
(A) Deep crisis
(B) Simple and interesting work
(C) Complicated situation
(D) Area of law

Q273.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
He is in high spirits today.
(A) Annoying
(B) Disturbed
(C) Drunk
(D) Cheerful

Q274.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Spill the beans
(A) Reveal a plan
(B) Reveal a crime
(C) Reveal a secret
(D) Reveal a mystery

Q275.
Identify a suitable title for the passage above.
(A) Prohibition of discrimination
(B) Article 15
(C) Constitution (124th Amendment) Bill 2019
(D) Reservation for Equality

Q276.
Select the most suitable word from the passage which means ‘not covered or hidden’.
(A) Turbulent
(B) Sourced
(C) Abnormal
(D) Exposed

Q277.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Hand and glove
(A) Very intimate terms
(B) Under all conditions
(C) Decided
(D) Oppressive

Q278.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
True colours
(A) Black and white
(B) Light colours
(C) Real character
(D) Bright colours

Q279.
The passage is mainly about:
(A) a dust storm in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh
(B) dust storms and thunderstorms
(C) a thunderstorm in Rajasthan
(D) the damage caused by thunderstorms

Q280.
Select an appropriate title for the passage.
(A) Levels of Stress in Different Age Groups
(B) Stress and Relief
(C) Life and Stress
(D) Stress and its Consequences

Q281.
Select the most appropriate title for the passage.
(A) Ghana – land of gold
(B) Ghana – land of tribes
(C) Ghana – land of Berbers
(D) Ghana – land of trade

Q282.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Once in a blue moon
(A) Occasionally
(B) Continuously
(C) Rarely
(D) Often

Q283.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
A lame excuse
(A) No excuse
(B) Explanation
(C) Weak excuse
(D) Strong excuse

Q284.
Which situation does NOT lead to stress?
(A) Finding a penny on the ground
(B) Giving exams as a teenager
(C) Loss of job as an adult
(D) Losing a toy as a child

Q285.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
In a nutshell
(A) Briefly
(B) Constructively
(C) Scrupulously
(D) Knotty

Q286.
What is the passage about?
(A) Metro life and the subway facilities
(B) The benefits of subway life
(C) The risky life in the subways
(D) Pollution created by the railroad

Q287.
When do dust storms and thunderstorms generally occur?
(A) In the pre-monsoon period
(B) After the rains
(C) During monsoon
(D) During winters

Q288.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
At sea
(A) To overcome
(B) Obsolete
(C) At a loss or perplexed
(D) To blunder

Q289.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Fascinating
(A) Unforgettable
(B) Tempting
(C) Seductive
(D) Repulsive

Q290.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Discontent
(A) Serenity
(B) Satisfaction
(C) Approval
(D) Relaxation

Q291.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Indignation
(A) Offense
(B) Designation
(C) Resignation
(D) Defence

Q292.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Utilitarian
(A) Evident
(B) Necessary
(C) Spacious
(D) Unnecessary

Q293.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Preposterous
(A) Flashy
(B) Outrageous
(C) Dreamy
(D) Imaginative

Q294.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Cornucopia
(A) Sink hole
(B) Treasure trove
(C) Malaise
(D) Avarice

Q295.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Prodigal
(A) Economical
(B) Scrimping
(C) Extravagant
(D) Conserving

Q296.
What is the theme of the passage?
(A) Protection of whales
(B) The extinction of Migaloo
(C) The sighting of Migaloo
(D) Whale hunting and its aftermath

Q297.
Among the natural disasters, which is the highest killer in India?
(A) Heat waves
(B) Lightning
(C) Cyclones
(D) Floods

Q298.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Controlled
(A) Profuse
(B) Promise
(C) Practicality
(D) Agitated

Q299.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Bonhomie
(A) Bad-natured
(B) Enemy
(C) Friendship
(D) Disagreeable

Q300.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Reluctant
(A) Definite
(B) Hesitant
(C) Confident
(D) Indiscreet

Q301.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Progress
(A) Development
(B) Diminishment
(C) Halt
(D) Stagnation

Q302.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Addicted
(A) Disinclined
(B) Unaccustomed
(C) Inclined
(D) Averse

Q303.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) necessary
(B) time-consuming
(C) lethargic
(D) glamorous

Q304.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Barbaric
(A) Indifferent
(B) Brutal
(C) Inquisitive
(D) Civilised

Q305.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Gourmet
(A) Indifferent
(B) Detached
(C) Epicure
(D) Non-indulgent

Q306.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Opulent
(A) Insolvent
(B) Flourishing
(C) Depressed
(D) Destitute

Q307.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Separable
(A) Branched
(B) Judicious
(C) Indivisible
(D) Liable

Q308.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) containment
(B) postponement
(C) advancement
(D) enhancement

Q309.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Reprieve
(A) Turn out
(B) Torrential
(C) Cease
(D) Continuation

Q310.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Approximately
(A) Exactly
(B) Vaguely
(C) Hourly
(D) Truly

Q311.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Assiduous
(A) Belligerent
(B) Meticulous
(C) Idle
(D) Idyllic

Q312.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Asperity
(A) Virility
(B) Civility
(C) Acridity
(D) Curiosity

Q313.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Penchant
(A) Bitterness
(B) Liking
(C) Sourness
(D) Disliking

Q314.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of ‘success’ from the passage.
(A) Neglect
(B) Laxity
(C) Default
(D) Failure

Q315.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Vociferous
(A) Silent
(B) Sullen
(C) Gallant
(D) Pugnacious

Q316.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Sordid
(A) Honourable
(B) Censurable
(C) Shameful
(D) Excellent

Q317.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) science
(B) invention
(C) scientists
(D) requirement

Q318.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Rebellious
(A) Manageable
(B) Unruly
(C) Happy
(D) Obedient

Q319.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Amateur
(A) Hospitable
(B) Pupil
(C) Scholar
(D) Professional

Q320.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Stupendous
(A) Terrible
(B) Smart
(C) Perfect
(D) Jealous

Q321.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Consummate
(A) Inept
(B) Ideal
(C) Soothing
(D) Worrisome

Q322.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Impasse
(A) Deadlock
(B) Peaceful
(C) Resolution
(D) Harmony

Q323.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) had been sold
(B) sells
(C) sold
(D) has been sold

Q324.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Peculiar
(A) Unusual
(B) Customary
(C) Perplexed
(D) Proven

Q325.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Integrate
(A) Influence
(B) Accept
(C) Excite
(D) Separate

Q326.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) of course
(B) despite
(C) in fact
(D) as a result

Q327.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Pensive
(A) Frivolous
(B) Unreflective
(C) Hollow
(D) Goofy

Q328.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) difficult
(B) impossible
(C) easy
(D) impractical

Q329.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Obliterate
(A) Patched
(B) Healed
(C) Mended
(D) Abolish

Q330.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) effective
(B) ineffective
(C) directive
(D) corrective

Q331.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Radiant
(A) Dismal
(B) Frowning
(C) Glowing
(D) Depressing

Q332.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Populous
(A) Crowded
(B) Inactive
(C) Sleepy
(D) Lifeless

Q333.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Contrary
(A) Wobbly
(B) Crooked
(C) Straight
(D) Opposite

Q334.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) time
(B) gadget
(C) confidentiality
(D) patience

Q335.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Erudite
(A) Scholarly
(B) Excited
(C) Impressive
(D) Lazy

Q336.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Colloquial
(A) Informal
(B) Slack
(C) Slang
(D) Formal

Q337.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Snowed under
(A) Lazy
(B) Silent
(C) Calm
(D) Busy

Q338.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) problems
(B) opportunities
(C) fear
(D) trouble

Q339.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Vigorous
(A) Extreme
(B) Delicate
(C) Energetic
(D) Hard

Q340.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Novel
(A) Formal
(B) Ancient
(C) Traditional
(D) Customary

Q341.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Chaos
(A) Insanity
(B) Tidiness
(C) Disarray
(D) Certainty

PASSAGE: Read the passage carefully and answer the following question. Reservation is a part of 1________ action, which seeks to bring equality. The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty Fourth Amendment) Bill, 2019, seeks to provide for the advancement of ‘economically weaker sections’ of citizens. Article 15 of the Constitution 2________ discrimination against any citizen on the grounds of race, religion, caste, sex or place of birth. However, the government may make special provisions for the 3________ of socially and educationally backward classes or for Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes. The Bill seeks to amend Article 15 to additionally permit the government to provide for the advancement of ‘economically weaker sections’. Further, up to 10% of the seats may be 4________ for such sections for admission in educational institutions. Such reservation will not apply to minority educational institutions. SubQuestion No : 41
Q342.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) exhibits
(B) prohibits
(C) establishes
(D) inhibits

PASSAGE: Read the passage carefully and answer the following question. Reservation is a part of 1________ action, which seeks to bring equality. The Constitution (One Hundred and Twenty Fourth Amendment) Bill, 2019, seeks to provide for the advancement of ‘economically weaker sections’ of citizens. Article 15 of the Constitution 2________ discrimination against any citizen on the grounds of race, religion, caste, sex or place of birth. However, the government may make special provisions for the 3________ of socially and educationally backward classes or for Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes. The Bill seeks to amend Article 15 to additionally permit the government to provide for the advancement of ‘economically weaker sections’. Further, up to 10% of the seats may be 4________ for such sections for admission in educational institutions. Such reservation will not apply to minority educational institutions. SubQuestion No : 41
Q343.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) themselves
(B) itself
(C) herself
(D) himself

Q344.
What is the theme of the passage?
(A) Pitfall of Black Death
(B) Impact of Black Death
(C) Origin of Black Death
(D) History of Black Death

Q345.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) schemes
(B) means
(C) capacities
(D) purposes

Q346.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Cogent
(A) Rational
(B) Insane
(C) Tyrannical
(D) Coward

Q347.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Abridge
(A) Expand
(B) Earmark
(C) Shorten
(D) Increase

Q348.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Intense
(A) Regular
(B) Rough
(C) Stationary
(D) Faint

Q349.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Scanty
(A) Expedient
(B) Paltry
(C) Nasty
(D) Abundant

Q350.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) preserved
(B) reserved
(C) deserved
(D) conserved

Q351.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Restrain
(A) Allow
(B) Assist
(C) Free
(D) Constrain

Q352.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Vigorous
(A) Buoyant
(B) Sturdy
(C) Frail
(D) Robust

Q353.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Coincide
(A) Differ
(B) Agree
(C) Confuse
(D) Detest

Q354.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Uncanny
(A) Queer
(B) Unduly
(C) Saintly
(D) Ordinary

Q355.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Awkward
(A) Adroit
(B) Tender
(C) Cordial
(D) Catchy

Q356.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Promote
(A) Discourage
(B) Delay
(C) Boost
(D) Block

Q357.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Accredit
(A) Certify
(B) Confide
(C) Rely
(D) Trust

Q358.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Conjure
(A) Appeal
(B) Quiet
(C) Appease
(D) Content

Q359.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) availability
(B) shortage
(C) lack
(D) mix

Q360.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Emulate
(A) Respect
(B) Neglect
(C) Spoilt
(D) Bash

Q361.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Glee
(A) Anxiety
(B) Abhorrence
(C) Mirth
(D) Distress

Q362.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Wily
(A) Horrid
(B) Honest
(C) Raunchy
(D) Triumphant

Q363.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Revoke
(A) Sustain
(B) Repeat
(C) Regret
(D) Repeal

Q364.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Better
(A) Brave
(B) Inferior
(C) Homely
(D) Fitter

Q365.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Dull
(A) Coloured
(B) Bright
(C) Clever
(D) Youthful

Q366.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) wild
(B) tame
(C) dangerous
(D) elegant

Q367.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Annoy
(A) Graze
(B) Mystify
(C) Employ
(D) Satisfy

Q368.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) solve
(B) forego
(C) overcome
(D) meet

Q369.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Peril
(A) Doubt
(B) Danger
(C) Benefit
(D) Safety

Q370.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Lethal
(A) Drowsy
(B) Noisy
(C) Slimy
(D) Deadly

Q371.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Profit
(A) Benefit
(B) Debt
(C) Payment
(D) Loss

Q372.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank 5.
(A) faster than
(B) fastest than
(C) much than
(D) more than

Q373.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Prohibit
(A) Aid
(B) Allow
(C) Ban
(D) Assist

Q374.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank 4.
(A) as long as
(B) as much as
(C) as such as
(D) as more as

Q375.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Pester
(A) Abuse
(B) Adore
(C) Annoy
(D) Amuse

Q376.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) job
(B) potential
(C) work
(D) time

Q377.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) quite
(B) much
(C) few
(D) adequate

Q378.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Rife
(A) Scarce
(B) Ripe
(C) Popular
(D) Serene

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. Migaloo is by far one of the world’s most recognisable whales, because he is completely white. Thanks to genetic sampling of Migaloo’s skin, scientists have identified that he’s male, and his albino appearance is a result of a variation in the gene responsible for the colour of his skin. Simply by looking different, Migaloo has become an icon within Australia’s east coast humpback whale population. Indeed, Migaloo has his own Twitter account with over 10,000 followers, and website where fans can lodge sightings and learn more about humpback whales. He was first discovered in 1991 off Byron Bay, Australia, and has since played hide and seek for many years, with many not knowing where or when he’ll show up next. He’s even surprised Kiwi fans by showing up in New Zealand waters. With the last official sighting two years ago, the time has once again come for us to ask: where is Migaloo? Already this year there have been false sightings, such as a near all white whale spotted off New South Wales. To make things more confusing, regular-looking humpbacks can trick whale watchers when they flip upside down, due to their white bellies. SubQuestion No : 41
Q379.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) have
(B) will have
(C) had
(D) has

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. Migaloo is by far one of the world’s most recognisable whales, because he is completely white. Thanks to genetic sampling of Migaloo’s skin, scientists have identified that he’s male, and his albino appearance is a result of a variation in the gene responsible for the colour of his skin. Simply by looking different, Migaloo has become an icon within Australia’s east coast humpback whale population. Indeed, Migaloo has his own Twitter account with over 10,000 followers, and website where fans can lodge sightings and learn more about humpback whales. He was first discovered in 1991 off Byron Bay, Australia, and has since played hide and seek for many years, with many not knowing where or when he’ll show up next. He’s even surprised Kiwi fans by showing up in New Zealand waters. With the last official sighting two years ago, the time has once again come for us to ask: where is Migaloo? Already this year there have been false sightings, such as a near all white whale spotted off New South Wales. To make things more confusing, regular-looking humpbacks can trick whale watchers when they flip upside down, due to their white bellies. SubQuestion No : 41
Q380.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) can
(B) should
(C) would
(D) could

Q381.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank 5.
(A) impacts
(B) frivolity
(C) impertinence
(D) paltriness

Q382.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) for
(B) too
(C) into
(D) towards

Q383.
Select the most appropriate word to fill in blank 2.
(A) tonight
(B) overnight
(C) every night
(D) at night

Q384.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) pick
(B) throw
(C) pull
(D) peel

Q385.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) When
(B) But
(C) As
(D) Because

Q386.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) few
(B) such
(C) many
(D) much

Q387.
Select the most appropriate word to fill in blank 3.
(A) overwhelming
(B) easy
(C) boring
(D) monotonous

Q388.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank 2.
(A) more as
(B) as much as
(C) such as
(D) much as

Q389.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank 4.
(A) call off
(B) call in
(C) call out
(D) call for

Q390.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank 1.
(A) leave out
(B) omit
(C) excludes
(D) includes

Q391.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank 4.
(A) placate
(B) exacerbates
(C) appease
(D) aid

Q392.
Select the most appropriate word to fill in blank 5.
(A) everywhere
(B) there
(C) nowhere
(D) here

Q393.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank 3.
(A) wane
(B) dissolution
(C) emergence
(D) need

Q394.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 4.
(A) packet
(B) piece
(C) part
(D) block

Q395.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank 2.
(A) impede
(B) hinder
(C) retract
(D) advance

Q396.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank 3.
(A) rare
(B) limited
(C) pervasive
(D) narrow

Q397.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 2.
(A) when
(B) their
(C) where
(D) there

Q398.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 3.
(A) thought
(B) felt
(C) found
(D) had

Q399.
What does excessive stress NOT result in?
(A) Hypertension
(B) Indigestion
(C) Relaxation
(D) Palpitation

Q400.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank 5.
(A) command
(B) extort
(C) demand
(D) claim

Q401.
Select the most appropriate word to fill in blank 1.
(A) failure
(B) uprise
(C) down
(D) fall

Q402.
A dust storm mainly occurs due to:
(A) moisture in the air
(B) easterly winds
(C) intense heat
(D) extreme cold

Q403.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 5.
(A) bind
(B) bend
(C) went
(D) bent

Q404.
Select the most appropriate word to fill in blank 4.
(A) fashion
(B) music
(C) film
(D) food

Q405.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank 1.
(A) is
(B) are
(C) will be
(D) should be

Q406.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank 3.
(A) have
(B) has
(C) store
(D) stored

Q407.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank 1.
(A) are
(B) has been
(C) is
(D) were

Q408.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 1.
(A) on
(B) to
(C) in
(D) by

Q409.
Select the most appropriate option to fill blank 2.
(A) had
(B) meet
(C) have
(D) see

Q410.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Quarrelsome
(B) Ecclesiastical
(C) Bovine
(D) Calamitious

Q411.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Intermenable
(B) Intubate
(C) Incredible
(D) Incredulous

Q412.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Difficulty
(B) Thesaurus
(C) Dictionary
(D) Dinoshauraus

Q413.
Where was Migaloo first discovered?
(A) South Wales
(B) Australia
(C) Jamaica
(D) New Zealand

Q414.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Alliterate
(B) Elementary
(C) Illiterate
(D) Alimentery

Q415.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Diarrhoea
(B) Pseudonym
(C) Connoiseur
(D) Perseverance

Q416.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Vocifirous
(B) Affliction
(C) Episcopal
(D) Innocuous

Q417.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Manipulate
(B) Postulate
(C) Stippulate
(D) Calculate

Q418.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Nefarious
(B) Sermonise
(C) Acquittal
(D) Chhivalrous

Q419.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Impoverish
(B) Ostacise
(C) Necessitate
(D) Grandeur

Q420.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Cushion
(B) Scientist
(C) Posthumusly
(D) Laboratory

Q421.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Conceive
(B) Appropriate
(C) Terminology
(D) Beleive

Q422.
What is the tone of the speaker?
(A) Pessimistic
(B) Descriptive
(C) Cynical
(D) Melancholic

Q423.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Aquatic
(B) Notorious
(C) Centinarian
(D) Mercenary

Q424.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Extacted
(B) Expected
(C) Extracted
(D) Acceptable

Q425.
What is the tone of the passage?
(A) Authoritative
(B) Anxious
(C) Informative
(D) Dejected

Q426.
What is the tone of the speaker?
(A) Humorous
(B) Explanatory
(C) Pessimistic
(D) Informal

Q427.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Frieze
(B) Fortunate
(C) Funereal
(D) Fortuiteous

Q428.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Membrane
(B) Solvant
(C) Highlight
(D) Exuberant

Q429.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Abcission
(B) Abstruse
(C) Incision
(D) Abyssal

Q430.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Illicite
(B) Illegal
(C) Impunity
(D) Illegible

Q431.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Fluorecence
(B) Forebear
(C) Forgo
(D) Flounder

Q432.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Perspicuious
(B) Purvey
(C) Peruse
(D) Pervade

Q433.
What is the tone of the passage?
(A) Critical
(B) Objective
(C) Subjective
(D) Didactic

Q434.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Measure
(B) Subscrieb
(C) Rectify
(D) Branding

Q435.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Auxiliary
(B) Aclaim
(C) Believe
(D) Absence

Q436.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Panick
(B) Panicked
(C) Picnicked
(D) Picnic

Q437.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Miarage
(B) Missing
(C) Mistaken
(D) Mission

Q438.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Assembly
(B) Disipline
(C) Group
(D) Leader

Q439.
Maga, a Berber clan originated from:
(A) Morocco
(B) Senegal
(C) Aksum
(D) Libya

Q440.
What is the tone of the speaker?
(A) Serious
(B) Pessimistic
(C) Joyful
(D) Informal

Q441.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Wriggle
(B) Wreathe
(C) Weggle
(D) Wreak

Q442.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Pried
(B) Prophet
(C) Prodigy
(D) Proteg

Q443.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word
(A) Knowing
(B) Cooking
(C) Liveing
(D) Loving

Q444.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word
(A) Washing
(B) Waiting
(C) Dieing
(D) Seeing

Q445.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Colomn
(B) Scale
(C) Peace
(D) Square

Q446.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Vial
(B) Vassal
(C) Vise
(D) Voracety

Q447.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Whorle
(B) Winch
(C) Weird
(D) Wench
