==============================================================================
FILE      : SSC_CHSL_2024_EN.txt
SOURCE PDF: ssc_papers/merged/SSC_CHSL_2024_EN.pdf
SUBJECT   : English Language
QUESTIONS : 894
==============================================================================

Q1.
Identify the error in the following sentence and select the option with the correct use of the phrasal verb.
Prateek was planning to ask Shreya for a favour. But he could not muster up the courage. So, he blacked out.
(A) Prateek was planning to ask Shreya for a favour. But he could not muster up the courage. So, he broke in.
(B) Prateek was planning to ask Shreya for a favour. But he could not muster up the courage. So, he chickened out.
(C) Prateek was planning to ask Shreya for a favour. But he could not muster up the courage. So, he checked out.
(D) Prateek was planning to ask Shreya for a favour. But he could not muster up the courage. So, he turned down.

Q2.
Identify the error in the following sentence and select the option with the correct use of the phrasal verb.
The police inspector was trying to give out the contradicting stories in the scene of the accident.
(A) The police inspector was trying to sign up the contradicting stories in the scene of the accident.
(B) The police inspector was trying to rush out the contradicting stories in the scene of the accident.
(C) The police inspector was trying to sort out the contradicting stories in the scene of the accident.
(D) The police inspector was trying to lighten up the contradicting stories in the scene of the accident.

Q3.
Identify the error in the given sentence and select the correct sentence from the given options.
Petrified wood is type of fossilised wood that exhibits the original details of the wood.
(A) Petrified wood is the type of fossilised wood that exhibits a original details of the wood.
(B) A petrified wood is type of fossilised wood that exhibits an original details of the wood.
(C) The petrified wood is the type of fossilised wood that exhibits a original details of the wood.
(D) Petrified wood is a type of fossilised wood that exhibits the original details of the wood.

Q4.
The following sentence has an error in its tense. Identify the error and select the correct sentence from the options.
If you had apprised me about your problem earlier, I would have allow you to go.
(A) If you had apprised me about your problem earlier, I would have allowed you to go.
(B) If you apprised me about your problem earlier, I would have allowed you to go.
(C) If you had apprised me about your problem earlier, I would allow you to go.
(D) If you can apprise me about your problem earlier, I would have allowed you to go.

Q5.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No improvement required’.
The annual seed festival hosted in Auroville promote sharing of traditional knowledge and sustainable farming practices.
(A) promotes sharing of traditional
(B) promotes sharing of traditionally
(C) promotes sharing of tradition
(D) No improvement required

Q6.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error. Select the part that contains the error
from the given options. If you don’t find any error mark 'No error' as your answer.
The aeroplane took down / without the passengers after / making a sudden announcement.
(A) making a sudden announcement
(B) No error
(C) without the passengers after
(D) The aeroplane took down

Q7.
Identify the error in the given sentence and select the correct sentence from the given options.
This is the story of eight round planets, the few rocks in between, and some comets.
(A) This is story of eight round planets, few rocks in between, and some comets.
(B) This is a story of eight round planets, few rocks in between, and some comets.
(C) This is the story of eight round planets, few rocks in between, and some comets.
(D) This is the story of eight round planets, a few rocks in between, and some comets.

Q8.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In case no improvement is needed, select ‘No
improvement’.
The Privacy Shield establishes a process to allow companies to transfer consumer data from European Union countries to
the United States in compliance in EU law.
(A) No improvement
(B) in compliance for the
(C) in compliance under the
(D) in compliance with

Q9.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the following sentence.
The interdisciplinary approach utilised in this study facilitates comprehensive understanding of the complex phenomenon
under investigation.
(A) facilitated a comprehensive understanding
(B) will have facilitated a comprehensive understanding
(C) utilises a comprehensive understanding
(D) is facilitates a comprehensive understanding

Q10.
Parts of the given sentence have been underlined. One of them contains an error. The underlined parts are given as options
with some changes. Select the option that correctly rectifies the error.
Raveena’s daughter Kavya is most intelligent student and she consistently achieves top grades.
(A) Raveenas’ daughter
(B) she has consistently
(C) an intelligent
(D) topper grades

Q11.
The following sentence has been divided into three segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error. If you
don’t find any error, select ‘No error’ as your answer.
It was possible to achieve anything, / if one has the grit and determination / to keep going.
(A) No error
(B) It was possible to achieve anything
(C) if one has the grit and determination
(D) to keep going.

Q12.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In case no improvement is needed, select No
improvement required.
Although uncountable files stack up on the tables of government officials, they prefer doing their work at a more leisure
pace.
(A) at a more leisurely pace
(B) at a more leisure paced
(C) No improvement needed
(D) at a more leisurely paced

Q13.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Employers in many developing countries report that a lack of skilled workers is a major and increasing bottleneck for their
operations, affected their capacity to innovate.
(A) affect their capacity
(B) effecting their capacity
(C) effect their capacity
(D) affecting their capacity

Q14.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the given sentence.
Although I have a lot of work to do, I am determined to finish it all by the end of the day so that I can enjoy my weekend not
having any imminent due dates.
(A) without any looming deadlines
(B) not with any pressure of due date
(C) with no pending reservations
(D) not leaving any work incomplete

Q15.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
A soldier of the tenth legion leaped into the water as soon as the ship touches the shore.
(A) No substitution required
(B) the ship touched the shore
(C) the ship was touch the shore
(D) the ship touch the shore

Q16.
Identify the error in the tense of the sentence and select the option that correctly rectifies the error.
Between two evils, I always picks the one I have never tried before.
(A) Between two evils, I always pick the one I have never tried before.
(B) Between two evils, I always is picking the one I have never tried before.
(C) Between two evils, I always picked the one I have never tried before.
(D) Between two evils, I always picking the one I have never tried before.

Q17.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error. Select the part that contains the error
from the given options. If you don’t find any error mark 'No error' as your answer.
Father took the newspaper / in his hand to / go through it once again.
(A) in his hand to
(B) Father took the newspaper
(C) go through it once again
(D) No

Q18.
The sentence below contains errors. Select the option with the correct use of tenses.
I will revised my course at least three times before my final examination.
(A) I would revised my course at least three times before my final examination.
(B) I will be revised my course at least three times since my final examination.
(C) I will have revised my course at least three times before my final examination.
(D) I must revised my course at least three times before my final examination.

Q19.
The given sentence is divided into three segments. Select the option that has the segment with a grammatical error. If there
is no error, select ‘No error’.
The judges eliminated the / classical singer, as she dropped of / in the middle of the competition.
(A) in the middle of the competition.
(B) The judges eliminated the
(C) classical singer, as she dropped of
(D) No error

Q20.
Select the most appropriate option that can replace the bracketed word segment in the following sentence.
An (imperfect positioning) of the Sun, Earth and Moon results in the Moon passing through only part of Earth’s umbra,
resulting in a partial lunar eclipse.
(A) imperfect alliance
(B) imperfect revolution
(C) imperfect allegiance
(D) imperfect alignment

Q21.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
The plum tree in our garden is cover in blossoms, as are the trees outside my office window.
(A) is covering at
(B) are cover at
(C) is covered in
(D) No substitution required

Q22.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error. Select the part that contains the error
from the given options. If you don't find any error, mark 'No error' as your answer.
The project was completed / more quicker / than expected.
(A) No error
(B) more quicker
(C) The project was completed
(D) than expected

Q23.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
The small size of his store makes it impossible for him to stock all the items.
(A) made them impossible
(B) making it impossible
(C) is made it impossible
(D) No substitution required

Q24.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined word segment in the given sentence.
Delivering that furniture to the tenth floor without the lift and an incline is incredibly foolish and next to impossible .
(A) like a tree known by its fruits
(B) like nailing jelly to the tree
(C) as tight as the bark of the tree
(D) like going between the bark and the tree

Q25.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error. Select the part that contains the error
from the given options. If you don’t find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
Mrs. Meera and family / received his letter / a week ago.
(A) No error
(B) Mrs. Meera and family
(C) received his letter
(D) a

Q26.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains an INCORRECT preposition.
Please remember to take / your notice to the reception area / if you want it to be displayed / upon the bulletin board.
(A) Please remember to take
(B) upon the bulletin board
(C) if you want it to be displayed
(D) your notice to the reception area

Q27.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains an INCORRECT preposition.
I am writing to invite you / to give a presentation / for our Jobs and Careers Conference / for engineering graduates.
(A) for engineering graduates
(B) I am writing to invite you
(C) for our Jobs and Careers Conference
(D) to give a presentation

Q28.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
Urgent activities are those things / that you must do immediately, / as they require quick action / and cannot be put on.
(A) and cannot be put on
(B) that you must do immediately
(C) Urgent activities are those things
(D) as they require quick action

Q29.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
He lived on the bank of a mighty river, broad and deep, that have always silently rolling on to a vast undiscovered ocean.
(A) which were always silently rolling
(B) which was always silently rolling
(C) that were always silently rolling
(D) what has always silently rolling

Q30.
The following sentence has been divided into three segments. One of them may contain an adverbial usage error. Select the
option that has the segment with the error. If you don’t find any error, select ‘No error’ as your answer.
Mr. Narayanan / is a rather / lazy man.
(A) No error
(B) Mr. Narayanan
(C) is a rather
(D) lazy man.

Q31.
Read the given sentence carefully. Change the meaning of the sentence by replacing the underlined word with its ANTONYM
from the following options.
I have keen interest in reading the mind of those students who are boisterous at home but on their best behaviour at school.
(A) clamorous
(B) frothing
(C) placid
(D) raucous

Q32.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
The film was made in Botswana, whose wildlife parks is larger to those in Kenya.
(A) are larger than
(B) are large than
(C) No substitution required
(D) as large than

Q33.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
In geography class, / the teacher told the students, / "Switzerland lies / inside Germany, France, Austria, and Italy."
(A) inside Germany, France, Austria, and Italy.
(B) In geography class
(C) Switzerland lies
(D) the teacher told the students

Q34.
The following sentence has been divided into three segments. One of them may contain an adverbial usage error. Select the
option that has the segment with the error. If you don’t find any error, select ‘No error’ as your answer.
Mrs. Arunima / speaks / Telugu well.
(A) speaks
(B) Mrs. Arunima
(C) Telugu well.
(D) No error

Q35.
The given sentence is divided into three segments. Select the option that has the segment with a grammatical error. If there
is no error, select ‘No error’.
The meeting was called off / due to a medical emergency of / the manager of the company.
(A) No error
(B) the manager of the company.
(C) The meeting was called off
(D) due to a medical

Q36.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined word segment in the given sentence.
I know Covid has made you terribly ill, but the good thing is that you have developed immunity against it for further
infections.
(A) the silver spoon
(B) the silver lining in the cloud
(C) being in the quicksilver
(D) crossing palms with silver

Q37.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
The little boy cried with pain when he burnt his fingers.
(A) No substitution required
(B) when he burns his fingers
(C) while he burn his fingers
(D) as he burning his fingers

Q38.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error. Select the part that contains the error
from the given options. If you don’t find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
Ramya is working / hardly / to get good marks.
(A) hardly
(B) Ramya is working
(C) No error
(D) to get good marks

Q39.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
There is an old rivalry between the three families for ages.
(A) of the three families
(B) No substitution required
(C) among the three families
(D) in the three families

Q40.
Select the most appropriate option that can replace the bracketed word segment in the following sentence.
Classical buildings in ancient Greek and Roman times were (characteristically built) from marble or some other attractive,
durable stone.
(A) typically built
(B) fascinating to build
(C) strange build
(D) mainly having been built

Q41.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the following sentence.
Rimjhim received a children’s very illustrated colourful atlas on her 10th birthday.
(A) a very illustrated colourful atlas children
(B) a very colourful illustrated children’s atlas
(C) an very illustrated colourful children’s atlas
(D) a colourful very illustrated children’s atlas

Q42.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
Applications are to be sent to the school’s e-mail ID before 30th June.
(A) will be send to
(B) is sending
(C) No substitution required
(D) would be send to

Q43.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a spelling error.
The make-up room was filled / with incadescent lights / which added to the misery / of those subjected to make-up.
(A) which added to the misery
(B) with incadescent lights
(C) of those subjected to make-up
(D) The make-up room was filled

Q44.
The given sentence is divided into three segments. Select the option that has the segment with a grammatical error. If there
is no error, select ‘No error’.
The volunteer gave on to / the food packets to the / children of the orphanage.
(A) The volunteer gave on to
(B) the food packets to the
(C) No error
(D) children of the orphanage.

Q45.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
I cannot use my office at the moment because it being painted.
(A) it is being painted
(B) it had been paint
(C) it has being painted
(D) No substitution required

Q46.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
It has been found that the trees are being destroyed by a moth.
(A) have destroyed
(B) is being destroyed
(C) have been destroying
(D) No substitution required

Q47.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
Then I unfurled the Indian tri-colour and keep it aloft at the roof of the world.
(A) keeping
(B) held
(C) No substitution required
(D) hold

Q48.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
He asked his father when would come the next letter.
(A) No substitution required
(B) the next letter would come
(C) would the next letter come
(D) come the next letter

Q49.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
I opened the box beneath the table and took of a book, the Materia Medica.
(A) took out
(B) take off
(C) took in
(D) No substitution required

Q50.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
I had to write a letter of mistake to my father for the blunder I made.
(A) apology
(B) No substitution required
(C) gratitude
(D) circumstance

Q51.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word ‘Defeat’ in the given sentence.
The first battle of Panipat was fought on 21 April 1526, where Babur introduced canon warfare and was able to gain victory
on Delhi and subjugated sultanate ruler Ibrahim Lodi.
(A) gain
(B) subjugated
(C) warfare
(D) victory

Q52.
The following sentence has been split into segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error. If you don’t
find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
I goes to / attend dance classes at / the National Dance Academy.
(A) No error
(B) attend dance classes at
(C) the National Dance Academy.
(D) I goes to

Q53.
There is an error in the given sentence. From the options given, identify the sentence that corrects the error to make it a
grammatically accurate sentence.
Harmit is not innocent such as Uday.
(A) Harmit is not as innocent more than Uday.
(B) Harmit is not as much as innocent as Uday.
(C) Harmit is not as innocent as Uday.
(D) Harmit is not innocent than Uday.

Q54.
Select the most appropriate idiomatic expression that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.:
It feels like I made a promise of more than my ability when I promised to complete this worksheet in one day.
(A) beat my brain out
(B) beat the drum
(C) bit off more than I could chew
(D) burnt a hole in my pocket

Q55.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a spelling error.
In all instances of frustrasion, / you will always find / the anger directed towards / a single person only.
(A) the anger directed towards
(B) In all instances of frustrasion
(C) you will always find
(D) a single person only

Q56.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Select the option that has the segment with the grammatical error.
My daughter participate / in the dance competition / that is organised every year / by the Lion’s Club.
(A) in the dance competition
(B) that is organised every year
(C) My daughter participate
(D) by the Lion’s Club.

Q57.
Select the most appropriate idiomatic expression that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Last year art critics praised Animesh as if he were a master, but he turned out to be a pleasure for a short time.
(A) a nine days’ wonder
(B) a dish fit for Gods
(C) a house of cards
(D) a bull in a china shop

Q58.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
At his wit’s end, he decided to return to his parents as he was unable to cope up with the stress of adjusting at a new place.
(A) Not knowing what to do
(B) Taking all notes
(C) After thinking
(D) Deciding after contemplation

Q59.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
The inspector smile after he was finished and patted Margie’s head.
(A) No substitution required
(B) smiled
(C) was smiled
(D) has smiled

Q60.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
She developing a remarkable resistance to cold and altitude.
(A) developed
(B) has develop
(C) No substitution required
(D) has been developing

Q61.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
Since the little girl answers / a few simple questions, / her parents say that / she is too intelligent.
(A) Since the little girl answers
(B) her parents say that
(C) she is too intelligent
(D) a few simple questions

Q62.
Read the given sentence carefully. Change the meaning of the sentence by replacing the underlined word with its ANTONYM
from the following options.
William Shakespeare is considered to be the most celebrated dramatist in the world of literature.
(A) laureate
(B) acclaimed
(C) inglorious
(D) illustrious

Q63.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The wizard, while performing an item, accidentally set his own hat on fire and prompted the fire alarm to go on.
(A) the fire alarm to go away
(B) the fire alarm to go under
(C) the fire alarm to go off
(D) the fire alarm to go above

Q64.
Select the option that will most suitably substitute the underlined part of the given sentence.
I gave my best dress to her on condition that she return it the very next day in a clean condition.
(A) on the condition that she would return
(B) on the condition that she return
(C) on condition that she returned
(D) on the conditions that she had return

Q65.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Shantanu always buries his head in the sand whenever he explains his professional failures to his father.
(A) hides from the truth
(B) shows a blind eye against social issues
(C) escapes from all the difficulties
(D) blames the others for his mistakes

Q66.
Select the sentence that brings out the most appropriate meaning of the idiom ‘Dog in the manger’.
(A) Mohit was so loyal and committed to his company that he rejected lucrative offers from different companies.
(B) To prove this is not a trap, I want to check the credibility of your plan.
(C) Rachit had some important work and so he cancelled the show tickets for everyone.
(D) You are here just because you have recognised your hidden potential.

Q67.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
In order to connect / these themes to a wider / historical context, Rahul go / beyond aesthetic analysis.
(A) In order to connect
(B) beyond aesthetic analysis
(C) these themes to a wider
(D) historical context

Q68.
Select the option that will improve the given sentence by using the most appropriate verb.
Alexa have being working as a teacher for five years now.
(A) Alexa has been working as a teacher for five years now.
(B) Alexa has being working as a teacher for five years now.
(C) Alexa is being working as a teacher for five years now.
(D) Alexa was been working as a teacher for five years now.

Q69.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
In every country of the world, primary caregivers are the women of children and elders.
(A) women are the caregivers primary of
(B) the women primary caregivers are of
(C) primary caregivers women are of the
(D) women are the primary caregivers of

Q70.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
The manager asked / the cooking team, “Who / among you is to baked the / Christmas cake this year?”
(A) Christmas cake this year?”
(B) The manager asked
(C) among you is to baked the
(D) the cooking team, “Who

Q71.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains an error.
How long are you working / for your current employer / and why don’t you / look for better opportunities?
(A) look for better opportunities
(B) and why don’t you
(C) How long are you working
(D) for your current employer

Q72.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
They appointed him as the manager, as he was due for an promotion.
(A) next
(B) it’s
(C) No substitution required
(D) a

Q73.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
That day we reached late for the competition and even though the competition went on smooth, I felt bad about Shivani
losing it.
(A) I felt bad
(B) losing it
(C) the competition went on smooth
(D) we

Q74.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Sonam’s cat used to chase the mouse into the kitchen and knock through a tower of pots and pans.
(A) knock inside a tower of pots
(B) knock over a tower of pots
(C) knock away a tower of pots
(D) knock out a tower of pots

Q75.
Read the given sentence carefully. Change the meaning of the sentence by replacing the underlined word with its ANTONYM
from the following options.
The equivocal tone of the Prime Minister in his speech caused uproar in the chamber.
(A) conflicting
(B) iffy
(C) explicit
(D) irresolute

Q76.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
According to the encyclopaedia, a oasis is an area which is made fertile by a source of freshwater.
(A) a source of freshwater.
(B) a oasis is an area
(C) According to the encyclopaedia
(D) which is made fertile by

Q77.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
If you give away smoking, your health will improve.
(A) No substitution required
(B) give up
(C) give off
(D) give out

Q78.
Select the most appropriate option that can replace the bracketed word segment in the following sentence.
Men (allowed) for Olympic artistic swimming for the first time at the 2024 Paris Games, the IOC confirmed on Thursday.
(A) are likely
(B) have permitted
(C) will approve
(D) are eligible

Q79.
Select the sentence which gives the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
A piece of cake
(A) Despite the heavy rain, they managed to have a successful outdoor event.
(B) The restaurant was crowded, but they found a table without any difficulty.
(C) The puzzle was so challenging that it took hours for Sam to solve it.
(D) After months of practice, Emily performed her piano piece flawlessly during the concert.

Q80.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill the blank in the given situation.
They were waiting for their family members who were returning from a pilgrimage. Therefore, they were _______________ on
the platform.
(A) running behind time
(B) playing a joke
(C) pacing up and down
(D) rolling up their sleeves

Q81.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined part in the following sentence.
My entire family left me in the lurch when I went to them after I divorced my husband.
(A) refused to help me in my distress
(B) blamed only me for my failure
(C) scorned me for committing mistakes
(D) attempted to harass me

Q82.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
The workers called out / the strike because / the management acceded to / all their demands.
(A) the strike because
(B) all their demands
(C) the management acceded to
(D) The workers called out

Q83.
Select the word segment from the options that can substitute the bracketed word segment meaningfully.
Telangana artists (are know for the amazing bronze castings).
(A) Are known for their amazing bronze castings
(B) Have been knew to the amazing bronze castings
(C) Is known to the amazing bronze castings
(D) Have to know the amazing bronze castings

Q84.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In case no improvement is needed, select ‘No
improvement’.
Since my friend was not feeling well, she asked me to come over and take care of her.
(A) No improvement
(B) come across
(C) come into
(D) come through

Q85.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following sentence.
I can’t begin to talk on this situation right now; I am still wrapping my head around it.
(A) Ignoring something completely
(B) Understanding something complicated
(C) Comparing two things that can’t be compared
(D) Revealing a secret nobody knows

Q86.
Select the option that can substitute the bracketed word segment meaningfully.
If you behave well and exhibit good manners, then (people will be likely to remember you) in a positive way.
(A) people likely you remember
(B) people are like remember you
(C) people will like in remember
(D) people are likely to remember you

Q87.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
Passengers started behaving / violent when / they were asked / to leave the bus station.
(A) to leave the bus station.
(B) Passengers started behaving
(C) violent when
(D) they were asked

Q88.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
The companies were / giving in the prizes / to attract customers / during the festive season.
(A) The companies were
(B) giving in the prizes
(C) during the festive season
(D) to attract

Q89.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The dearth of governmental policies on the basic rights and comforts of the impaired population leads to low standard of
public life in a country.
(A) Brevity
(B) Lacunae
(C) Abundance
(D) Paucity

Q90.
Select the option that will most suitably substitute the underlined part of the given sentence.
He was not happy until he gave up his job and live as a fakir in the forests.
(A) unless he gave up his job and lives
(B) until he gave up his job and lived
(C) until he gave up his job and lives
(D) until he gives up his job and lived

Q91.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No improvement required’.
I am so glad that I ran into you on the way.
(A) ran over
(B) No improvement required
(C) ran away
(D) ran out of

Q92.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No improvement required’.
We set up on the journey early in the morning.
(A) set off
(B) set in
(C) No improvement required
(D) set about

Q93.
Choose the option that best describes the meaning of the idioms and phrases underlined in the given sentence.
You can best identify the fair weather friends at the time of adversity.
(A) Friends who come in good weather conditions
(B) Best friends
(C) Friends who bring good rain
(D) Friend only at the time of prosperity

Q94.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
UNICEF builds partnerships across the global community on accelerate gender equality.
(A) global community with accelerate
(B) global community till accelerate
(C) global community to accelerate
(D) global community

Q95.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
I quietly went out at the door into the veranda.
(A) No substitution required
(B) by
(C) through
(D) from

Q96.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a spelling error.
When the famous businessman / faced a huge loss / in his business, / no one expressed simpathy.
(A) in his business
(B) When the famous businessman
(C) no one expressed simpathy
(D) faced a huge loss

Q97.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
With hard work, commitment / and proper guidance, / Sivaram has become / a IPS officer.
(A) With hard work, commitment
(B) and proper guidance
(C) a IPS officer
(D) Sivaram has become

Q98.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
King Zheng is known to lead an army of a million armoured soldiers, a thousand chariots and ten thousand horses in his
misssion to conquer the neighbouring kingdoms.
(A) Misssion
(B) Kingdoms
(C) Chariots
(D) Thousand

Q99.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
Ramayana is an ancient Sanskrit epic; it is believed to be written around 500 BC to 100 BC.
(A) Ramayana is an ancient
(B) Sanskrit epic; it is
(C) believed to be written
(D) around 500 BC to 100 BC.

Q100.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
His mother’s transfer from a small town to Delhi brought up a huge change in his schooling.
(A) from a small town to Delhi
(B) His mother’s transfer
(C) in his schooling.
(D) brought up a huge change

Q101.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
This artwork / are a wonderful example / of the period's vogue / for realistic style.
(A) This artwork
(B) of the period's vogue
(C) for realistic style
(D) are a wonderful example

Q102.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
I noticed that they / did not went to / the museum but entered / a shopping complex.
(A) the museum but entered
(B) did not went to
(C) a shopping complex.
(D) I noticed that they

Q103.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a spelling error.
To submit a report / on the recent fire accident, / a high level commitee / has been formed.
(A) To submit a report
(B) has been formed
(C) on the recent fire accident
(D) a high level commitee

Q104.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Select the option that has the segment with a grammatical error.
He organises / a children’s fair every year / and his friends comes / to attend it.
(A) He organises
(B) a children’s fair every year
(C) to attend it.
(D) and his friends comes

Q105.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the following sentence.
He passed away in the year 1950 at 10 a.m. on 13 July.
(A) in the year 1950 at 10 a.m. on 13 July
(B) at 10 a.m. on 13 July in the year 1950
(C) on 13 July at 10 a.m. in the year 1950
(D) in the year 1950 on 13 July at 10 a.m.

Q106.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
It was noticed / that he truthful / answered the questions / raised by the Headmistress.
(A) that he truthful
(B) It was noticed
(C) raised by the Headmistress.
(D) answered

Q107.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
There are eight planets in our solar system and a Earth is the third planet from the Sun.
(A) planet from the Sun.
(B) in our solar system
(C) and a Earth is the third
(D) There are eight planets

Q108.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word in the following sentence to fill in the blank.
The documentary explored the historical and cultural significance of the ________(antique) ruins in the region.
(A) obsolete
(B) contemporary
(C) modern
(D) ancient

Q109.
Choose the option that best describes the meaning of the idioms and phrases underlined in the given sentence.
A jack of all trades cannot survive in the world of specialisation.
(A) A good communicator
(B) A person who can do many things but is not an expert in any
(C) An expert of many jobs
(D) A businessman

Q110.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
‘You expressed your opinion/ very clearly /but I am sorry/ I cannot agree to you’.
(A) You expressed your opinion
(B) very clearly
(C) I cannot agree to you
(D) but I am sorry

Q111.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
We shall rehearse thrice before the final performance at least we make errors in the dialogues.
(A) for we make errors
(B) but we make errors
(C) can we make errors
(D) lest we make errors

Q112.
Select the most appropriate option that can replace the bracketed word segment in the following sentence.
Children should avoid giving out personal details online (which will) identify them or their location.
(A) what will
(B) that could
(C) whichever can
(D) which might lead

Q113.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
We has travelled / to many states / of India to get / an essence of its diversity.
(A) to many states
(B) of India to get
(C) an essence of its diversity
(D) We has travelled

Q114.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
The manager noticed / that Pragya / was first to reach / the office on Saturday.
(A) that Pragya
(B) The manager noticed
(C) was first to reach
(D) the office on Saturday.

Q115.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word in the following sentence to fill in the blank.
The city’s infrastructure was ill-equipped to handle the influx of ________(visitors) during the peak season.
(A) tourists
(B) citizens
(C) natives
(D) residents

Q116.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
She was thinking at the fun they had.
(A) beside
(B) by
(C) No substitution required
(D) about

Q117.
Replace the underlined word in the given sentence with an appropriate synonym from the options listed below.
They gave us the impression that Clara was a cold and calculating woman, who was only after power.
(A) callous
(B) unscrupulous
(C) unsympathetic
(D) manipulative

Q118.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
A owl is a bird which has wide eyes, asymmetrical ears and is found mostly in forests.
(A) and is found mostly in forests.
(B) asymmetrical ears
(C) A owl is a bird
(D) which has wide eyes

Q119.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence. If there is no need to
substitute it, select ‘No substitution’.
He was the fastest between all the contestants.
(A) No substitution
(B) since
(C) amongst
(D) from

Q120.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
Everyone have/ to join health orientation/ classes before/ going for trekking.
(A) to join health orientation
(B) Everyone have
(C) going for trekking
(D) classes before

Q121.
Read the sentence carefully and select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined part.
Greta Thunberg’s tirade against environmental degeneration shocked the world leaders.
(A) minute observation
(B) debatable account
(C) long and angry speech
(D) innate liberal opinion

Q122.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
I used to eat into / in the evening / when my parents / were on night shifts.
(A) I used to eat into
(B) when my parents
(C) in the evening
(D) were on night shifts

Q123.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the given sentence.
It is a general belief that the female ostrich guard the nest at night.
(A) guarded the nest at night
(B) guards the nest at night
(C) does guard the nest in night
(D) is guarding the nest at night

Q124.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Grasslands should not be foraged and some places are to be closed for grazing.
(A) over-grazed and some areas should be
(B) cut and few areas
(C) grazed and some places is
(D) planted or

Q125.
Select the appropriate option that can substitute the underlined phrase in the following sentence.
Even though she’s a celebrity, she doesn’t draw any attention towards herself .
(A) is hard to come by
(B) keeps a low profile
(C) keeps hot under the collar
(D) keeps up with the Joneses

Q126.
Read the given sentence carefully. Change the meaning of the sentence by replacing the underlined word with its ANTONYM
from the following options.
His father warned him not to use vulgar language at home.
(A) decorous
(B) ribald
(C) impervious
(D) licentious

Q127.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
The soldiers / were selected / on the section / of ‘gallantry of spirits’.
(A) were selected
(B) The soldiers
(C) on the section
(D) of ‘gallantry of spirits’.

Q128.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
The teacher will never / give you punishment / if you will / come on time.
(A) give you punishment
(B) if you will
(C) come on time
(D) the teacher will never

Q129.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Professor Singh is not in the office today. I ask you try call him tomorrow.
(A) suggest you try calling
(B) am suggesting you calling
(C) ask you to try called
(D) asked you to call

Q130.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the following sentence.
I cannot go out tonight because I will preparing of my interview tomorrow.
(A) I have to prepare for
(B) I will have prepare for
(C) I have been prepare to
(D) I had to prepare to

Q131.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
There was an gang of thieves spotted at our local bank, make sure to be careful.
(A) at our local bank
(B) make sure to be careful
(C) There was an gang
(D) of thieves spotted

Q132.
Select the option that corrects the following sentence.
All tickets of the FIFA World Cup have been sold away.
(A) All tickets of the FIFA World Cup have been sold into.
(B) All tickets of the FIFA World Cup have been sold across.
(C) All tickets of the FIFA World Cup have been sold out.
(D) All tickets of the FIFA World Cup have been sold among.

Q133.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
Policeman came to my village and asked about a person who burgled a house last night.
(A) policeman
(B) a house
(C) my village
(D) a person

Q134.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
I am very much / obliged of my friend / for the help / he rendered to me.
(A) I am very much
(B) he rendered to me
(C) for the help
(D) obliged of my friend

Q135.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
There’s an quiet street down the left that you can use for your dance practice.
(A) down the left
(B) that you can use
(C) There’s an quiet street
(D) for your dance practice

Q136.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Select the option that has the segment with a grammatical error.
It was my niece / who was leaving college / last year, and / not my son.
(A) last year, and
(B) not my son.
(C) It was my niece
(D) who was leaving college

Q137.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
As I have no time to discuss the points, so I wrote a email to her.
(A) so I wrote an e-mail for her
(B) so I wrote a e-mail to her
(C) I write an email to her
(D) I wrote an email to her

Q138.
Read the sentence carefully and select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined part.
You can be sentenced for trespassing on someone else’s property.
(A) conspiring against others
(B) entering without permission
(C) leaving without permission
(D) showing unselfish devotion

Q139.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
She finished her quickly breakfast and rushed to school.
(A) finished her breakfast quickly
(B) quickly her breakfast finished
(C) her breakfast finished quickly
(D) finished breakfast hers quickly

Q140.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
Geeta was working now but she can be seen swimming in the river every evening.
(A) swimming in the
(B) river every evening.
(C) but she can be seen
(D) Geeta was working now

Q141.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the following sentence.
A gift from my teacher on the eve of the new year was a complete surprise.
(A) like a cat on hot bricks
(B) a bolt from the blue
(C) like striking one’s colours
(D) spilling of beans

Q142.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
A sting in the tail
(A) An unexpected, typically unpleasant or problematic end to something
(B) Something which seems bad at first but contains a pleasant part at the end
(C) To initiate a situation that is very complicated or problematic
(D) A situation in which a large group has to do something to satisfy a small group

Q143.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
My Vice-Chancellor works / eighteen hours / a day, / seven days week.
(A) seven days week.
(B) My Vice-Chancellor works
(C) eighteen hours
(D) a day

Q144.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
Since childhood, Monty / ate his food / fast and he / will not change.
(A) fast and he
(B) ate his food
(C) Since childhood, Monty
(D) will not change

Q145.
Based on the situation in the sentence, select the most appropriate idiom.
After many years of rivalry, the two schools decided to _______ and participate in a National Event together.
(A) bell the cat
(B) bury the hatchet
(C) go cold turkey
(D) be in the doldrums

Q146.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the following sentence and select the option with the correct spelling.
Stomach sleepers were rated as being more gregairious and uncomfortable with criticism.
(A) gregarious
(B) criticicm
(C) ratedd
(D) stomac

Q147.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
Today she said to her friend, “You’re the sweetest person I have met ever”.
(A) I have met ever”.
(B) her friend, “You’re
(C) Today she said to
(D) the sweetest person

Q148.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word segment in the following sentence.
The girl which is wearing a blue shirt is my sister.
(A) which is wearing the blue shirt
(B) who is wearing a blue shirt
(C) which wear a blue shirt
(D) who wear a blue shirt

Q149.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment in which the article has been used
INCORRECTLY.
Ms. Rose is a / sweetest of / all the girls / in the class.
(A) sweetest of
(B) all the girls
(C) in the class.
(D) Ms. Rose is a

Q150.
Read the sentence carefully and select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined part.
The revolt of the labourers will be considered as an epoch in the world history.
(A) unpopular measure
(B) hostile event
(C) important period
(D) commendable act

Q151.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Select the option that has the segment with a grammatical error.
The general’s address / was applauds / by all sections / of society.
(A) by all sections
(B) was applauds
(C) of society.
(D) the general’s address

Q152.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Little that I knew of the English language was not sufficient to make me an English teacher.
(A) So little
(B) A little
(C) The little
(D) Very little

Q153.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word ‘Swap’ from the given sentence.
The original buyer attempted to resell the tickets online because there was no option to exchange them for a new date.
(A) resell
(B) exchange
(C) original
(D) option

Q154.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a spelling error.
I begged him / to reconcider / the decision but / he refused to yield.
(A) the decision but
(B) I begged him
(C) he refused to yield.
(D) to reconcider

Q155.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the following sentence and select its correct spelling from the given options.
The boy found the project to be a peice of cake because it was incredibly easy.
(A) piece
(B) incrediblly
(C) foaund
(D) praject

Q156.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
As there was no one to look thorough the orphan, he had to take refuge in the orphanage.
(A) look down upon
(B) look after
(C) look upon
(D) look through

Q157.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
The chief guest gave out prizes to the meritorious students of the school.
(A) of the school.
(B) gave out prizes
(C) to the meritorious students
(D) The chief guest

Q158.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
The couple / preferred to walk / until the last house / of the town.
(A) The couple
(B) preferred to walk
(C) of the town
(D) until the last house

Q159.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
Hard had she / thrown the basketball / when it fell / on the ground.
(A) when it fell
(B) on the ground
(C) thrown the basketball
(D) Hard had she

Q160.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
During winters, most of the trains are not running on time in North India.
(A) During winters
(B) on time in North India.
(C) are not running
(D) most of the trains

Q161.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The common masses have waited for three hours to meet the king in the royal court.
(A) has been waiting
(B) had waiting
(C) have been waiting
(D) will waiting

Q162.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
He takes his always dog for a walk in the park.
(A) takes his dog for always a walk
(B) takes his dog for an always walk
(C) always takes his dog for a walk
(D) his dog for a walk always takes

Q163.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains an error in the usage of
indefinite articles.
We took / an ice / and applied it on / the wound.
(A) an ice
(B) We took
(C) and applied it on
(D) the wound.

Q164.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The housing loan taken by Ramesh effected his daily expenses adversely.
(A) by Ramesh affected
(B) for Ramesh effected
(C) from Ramesh effected
(D) of Ramesh effected

Q165.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word ‘Contaminate’ from the given sentence.
Crews were requested to purify the system since a brain-eating amoeba was discovered in the drinking water.
(A) requested
(B) discovered
(C) purify
(D) system

Q166.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Their was a large snake found in the garden last evening.
(A) There was a large snake
(B) There was the larger snake
(C) There was not a large snake
(D) Their was the larger snake

Q167.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
She was singing / beautifully in / the concert hall / last night.
(A) the concert hall
(B) last night.
(C) She was singing
(D) beautifully in

Q168.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the given sentence.
This newly arisen evidence could have proved to finally put the culprit behind bars.
(A) is proof
(B) can proof
(C) can be proven
(D) could have been proven

Q169.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The woman lost much to her body weight due to diabetes.
(A) from her body weight due to
(B) for her body weight due to
(C) off her body weight due to
(D) of her body weight due to

Q170.
Select the most appropriate option to correct the sentence by using meaning of the undelined word.
In the winter season, the poor woman needed a refuge where she could live freely and independently.
(A) School
(B) Shelter
(C) Inn
(D) Tent

Q171.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following sentence.
Manish told Rounak time and again of the ill consequences of his habit of being late to the college.
(A) Repeatedly
(B) Hardly ever
(C) At intervals
(D) Not often

Q172.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
It is no exaggeration to say the Hussain Sagar Lake is an integral element of Hyderabad and Hyderabad’s history.
(A) essential
(B) total
(C) extra
(D) inherent

Q173.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
Rashmi was / quite amusing when / she heard about / what had happened.
(A) Rashmi was
(B) quite amusing when
(C) she heard about
(D) what

Q174.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
After a while, / she look up / and saw that / it was getting dark.
(A) and saw that
(B) it was getting dark
(C) she look up
(D) After a while

Q175.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The boy watched a sci-fi movie in the lieu of playing in the game zone.
(A) in lieu of play
(B) in lieu off playing
(C) in lieu of playing
(D) on lieu of playing

Q176.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The player was declared fit and in excellent health to play the final matches.
(A) right as rain
(B) left out in cold
(C) on cloud nine
(D) up in the arms

Q177.
Read the sentence carefully and select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined part.
The sudden declaration of war between two countries led to a disarray.
(A) peaceful treaty
(B) disorderly situation
(C) refined argument
(D) elusive situation

Q178.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
If you are thinking about investing in share markets, isn’t it make sense to find an expert?
(A) did it
(B) is it
(C) doesn’t it
(D) do it

Q179.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
I am going / to buy a red car / with a leather seats / and a sunroof.
(A) I am going
(B) and a sunroof
(C) to buy a red car
(D) with a

Q180.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
After your insistence, / my sister / checked / a mailbox again.
(A) a mailbox again.
(B) After your insistence
(C) my sister
(D) checked

Q181.
The underlined phrase in the given sentence has been used incorrectly. Select the option that can correctly replace the
underlined segment.
Samita asked out a favour of going early today.
(A) asked for
(B) asked over
(C) asked around
(D) asked

Q182.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word ‘intuitive’ to fill in the blank.
In a split second, her ________ reaction kicked in as she swiftly reached out to catch the falling glass.
(A) shrewd
(B) instinctive
(C) voluntary
(D) insightful

Q183.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Select the option that has the segment with a grammatical error.
I am sure / that he will praying / for a good crop / this year.
(A) that he will praying
(B) I am sure
(C) this year.
(D) for a good crop

Q184.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
Our plane / arrived at / the Mumbai airport / at the right time.
(A) arrived at
(B) Our plane
(C) at the right time
(D) the Mumbai airport

Q185.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
Mathematics help/ in developing/ the logical mindset /of students.
(A) in developing
(B) the logical mindset
(C) Mathematics help
(D) of

Q186.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the following sentence.
This serum contains ingredients enabling the hair to grow.
(A) the enable grow hair
(B) for growth hair
(C) for growing many hair
(D) that enable the hair to grow

Q187.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
It is his job / to chase out / clients with / outstanding debts.
(A) clients with
(B) to chase out
(C) outstanding debts
(D) It is his job

Q188.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains an error.
If she exercises daily, / she would / remain energetic / and fit forever.
(A) remain energetic
(B) If she exercises daily
(C) and fit forever
(D) she

Q189.
Select the option with the correct use of article(s).
(A) She kept lot of rules in her life, due to which she is flourishing today.
(B) She kept an lot of rules in her life, due to which she is flourishing today.
(C) She kept a lot of rules in her life, due to which she is flourishing today.
(D) She kept the lot of rules in her life, due to which she is flourishing today.

Q190.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
He have / workers from / Ireland and France / in his factory.
(A) in his factory.
(B) workers from
(C) Ireland and France
(D) He have

Q191.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the following sentence.
I consider that every matter must be considered in every point of view.
(A) of every point
(B) from every point
(C) at every point
(D) on every point

Q192.
Select the most appropriate homonyms from the given alternatives to fill in the blanks.
He ________ imitate the playful movement of the ________.
Alternatives:
A.does (female deer)
B.does
C.dose
(A) C, B
(B) B, A
(C) A, B
(D) A, C

Q193.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Planets in our solar system close and big for them to twinkle.
(A) is close and big
(B) are quite close and big
(C) are too close and big
(D) very close and big

Q194.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
A company can / make money by / obtain resources / more affordably.
(A) A company can
(B) make money by
(C) obtain resources
(D) more affordably.

Q195.
Select the option with the correct use of article(s).
(A) William Wordsworth was a romantic poet. He did things in an unusual manner.
(B) William Wordsworth was romantic poet. He did things in an unusual manner.
(C) William Wordsworth was the romantic poet. He did things in a unusual manner.
(D) William Wordsworth was a romantic poet. He did things in a unusual manner.

Q196.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
The teacher will / certainly help you / if you will / ask her.
(A) certainly help you
(B) The teacher will
(C) if you will
(D) ask her

Q197.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
We have carried out an successful raid on a fraudulent minister.
(A) the successful raid
(B) successful raid
(C) these successful raid
(D) a successful raid

Q198.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word ‘Abandon’ from the given sentence.
Ramita has decided to forsake her participation in college activities until she improved her scores.
(A) forsake
(B) improved
(C) decided
(D) participation

Q199.
Read the sentence carefully and select the synonym of the underlined word from the given alternatives.
Everyone revered my austere father who was the high priest of the famous Shiva temple.
(A) Stern
(B) Composed
(C) Morose
(D) Aged

Q200.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
A great / culture of hospitality of / the Spanish / is well-known.
(A) the Spanish
(B) culture of hospitality of
(C) A great
(D) is well-known.

Q201.
Select the option that will improve the given sentence by using the most appropriate verb.
Soorya walking to college every day.
(A) Soorya is walking to college every day.
(B) Soorya walked to college every day.
(C) Soorya walk to college every day.
(D) Soorya have walked to college every day.

Q202.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the given sentence.
When I got an opportunity to start a new business, Ravikanth queered my pitch.
(A) Supported me with money
(B) Helped me by standing beside me
(C) Ruined my plan
(D) Advised me

Q203.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Many a women work for the betterment of their family.
(A) Many a woman worked for
(B) Many a women working for
(C) Many a woman works for
(D) Many a women works for

Q204.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains an error.
In this cold weather, / there’s nothing / like good / cup of coffee.
(A) In this cold weather
(B) like good
(C) cup of coffee
(D) there’s nothing

Q205.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the underlined segment in the following sentence.
The arrival of Pragati in the house brought disharmony among the family members.
(A) Tenterhooks
(B) A cry in the wilderness
(C) Rift in the lute
(D) Hair breadth

Q206.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the following sentence.
I hope you have enjoying yourselves at the party tonight!
(A) enjoys yourselves
(B) will be enjoy himself
(C) are enjoying themselves
(D) enjoy yourselves

Q207.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the given sentence.
The dedicated teacher laboured assiduously to aid her pupils in achieving success.
(A) un-biased
(B) committed
(C) uninvolved
(D) apathetic

Q208.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
No sooner did we reach at the party that it began to rain.
(A) it began to rain
(B) before it began to rain
(C) than it began to rain
(D) as it began to rain

Q209.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains an error.
They have decided / to wind out / their business / without delay.
(A) They have decided
(B) their business
(C) to wind out
(D) without delay.

Q210.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains an error.
I had seen / her with her mother / in the cinema hall / yesterday.
(A) in the cinema hall
(B) her with her mother
(C) yesterday
(D) I had seen

Q211.
Read the sentence carefully and select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined part.
The clamour distracted the priest and made him angry.
(A) loud and confused noise
(B) narrow-mindedness
(C) introduction of new things
(D) humorous deception

Q212.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Bill Gates’ fortune was bequeathed for the old age home.
(A) into the old age home
(B) to the old age home
(C) by the old age home
(D) with the old age home

Q213.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word given in brackets to fill in the blank.
The firefighter summoned all her _________ (cowardice) and rushed into the burning building.
(A) skills
(B) erudition
(C) courage
(D) expertise

Q214.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the given sentence.
A newer, more effective computer system was installed in place of the obsolete one.
(A) outdated
(B) current
(C) modern
(D) advanced

Q215.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined part of the given sentence.
Mr. Sengupta’s complaint to the higher authority was only a red herring.
(A) candid confession
(B) fortunate evidence
(C) clever bluff
(D) discouraging act

Q216.
Read the sentence carefully and select the synonym of the underlined word from the given alternatives.
The Television show was hosted by a young and vivacious woman called Laura.
(A) Legendary
(B) Atrocious
(C) Liberal
(D) Energetic

Q217.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
(1) Ganga was (2) out shopping at the mall (3) and ran over (4) her schoolmate.
(A) 4
(B) 1
(C) 2
(D) 3

Q218.
There is a spelling error in the given sentence. Select the option that contains the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
The precious bookshelf was carefully decorated with religiuos books.
(A) precious
(B) decorated
(C) carefully
(D) religiuos

Q219.
Select the option with the correct use of future tense.
(A) If you worked hard in the same manner, you will soon achieve success.
(B) If you had work hard in the same manner, you will soon achieve success.
(C) If you have work hard in the same manner, you will soon achieve success.
(D) If you work hard in the same manner, you will soon achieve success.

Q220.
Select the option that can substitute the bracketed word segment meaningfully.
The city of Hyderabad is located (on the heart from Telangana).
(A) with the heart in Telangana
(B) in the heart with Telangana
(C) of the heart in Telangana
(D) in the heart of Telangana

Q221.
Select the most appropriate pair of words to fill in the blanks.
Shyam has reserved a ________ in the train for his wife as she will be giving ________ to his child soon.
(A) birth; birth
(B) berth; birth
(C) berth; berth
(D) birth; berth

Q222.
Choose an appropriate word that can substitute the bracketed word and complete the sentence meaningfully.
Shelley was very happy (while) I accepted her invitation to her birthday party.
(A) when
(B) as
(C) after
(D) before

Q223.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the given sentence.
The experienced surgeon handled the delicate procedure with care and precision.
(A) seasoned
(B) amateur
(C) untrained
(D) unskilled

Q224.
The underlined phrase in the given sentence has been used incorrectly. Select the option that can correctly replace the
underlined segment.
I am down with her complaints.
(A) passed out with
(B) fed up with
(C) held down with
(D) looked

Q225.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Gulliver hear his watch ticking in his pocket.
(A) heard his watch tickling
(B) watch ticking
(C) could hear his watch ticking
(D) could hear his watch ticked

Q226.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Select the option that has the segment with a grammatical error.
He do not / fear the / repercussions of / this decision.
(A) repercussions of
(B) this decision.
(C) He do not
(D) fear

Q227.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The novel highlights the place of the endangered species in the rainforest.
(A) prowess
(B) position
(C) plight
(D) perspective

Q228.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
The hotel room, / which we / booked, / isn’t enough big.
(A) isn’t enough big
(B) The hotel room
(C) which we
(D) booked

Q229.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the bracketed word in the following sentence to fill in the blank.
Lewis was aggressive, ________ (normal), moody, and brilliantly clever.
(A) feeble
(B) eccentric
(C) dogmatic
(D) selfish

Q230.
Select the most appropriate homophones to fill in the blanks.
It was against her ________ to earn more _________ than that decided by the board of directors.
(A) principle, profit
(B) principal; profit
(C) principal; prophet
(D) principle; prophet

Q231.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the following sentence and select its correct spelling from the given options.
The committee heard that he had been negliegent in his duty.
(A) negligent
(B) dutie
(C) comittee
(D) hurd

Q232.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM for the underlined word in the given sentence.
As a punishment for his betrayal to his country, the spy who sold secrets was sent to prison.
(A) Infidelity
(B) Loyalty
(C) Perilous
(D) Nasty

Q233.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
He has recovered now and is feeling too strong to walk.
(A) too weak to walk
(B) weak enough to walk
(C) strong to walk
(D) strong enough to walk

Q234.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Peter was the last to know that she had been cheating of him.
(A) cheating up him
(B) cheating in him
(C) cheat of him
(D) cheating on him

Q235.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following sentence.
The upshot of the consultation with the doctor was an operation scheduled for the next week.
(A) Blame
(B) Cause
(C) Result
(D) Estimate

Q236.
Read the sentence carefully and select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined part.
The crux of the study has been delineated by the researcher.
(A) relevant part
(B) fixed limitation
(C) collected data
(D) central point

Q237.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
Mumbai is the city of dreams but it is a expensive city too.
(A) a expensive city too
(B) but it is
(C) Mumbai is the
(D) city of dreams

Q238.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the given sentence.
Every piece of furniture in her house is in apple-pie order.
(A) Very neatly arranged
(B) Painted in light colours
(C) Very delicately arranged
(D) Kept in a disorganised way

Q239.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word in the following sentence to fill in the blank.
Lead paint is an environmental ________ (danger) and can harm children.
(A) conflict
(B) empathy
(C) toil
(D) hazard

Q240.
The following sentence has been divided into four parts. Identify the part that contains an error.
Pratigya arrived / to the / railway station / five hours early.
(A) railway station
(B) Pratigya arrived
(C) to the
(D) five hours early.

Q241.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following sentence.
Independence Day is considered as a red-letter day in the history of India.
(A) Regular day
(B) Uneventful day
(C) Memorable day
(D) Unimportant day

Q242.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Select the option that has the segment with a grammatical error.
The sun rises / in an east / and sets / in the west.
(A) in the west.
(B) and sets
(C) the sun rises
(D) in an east

Q243.
Select the option with the correct spelling to replace the underlined word in the given sentence.
A natural clamity causing huge destruction and loss of life and property.
(A) calamity
(B) clamanity
(C) calamitey
(D) climanity

Q244.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word given in the bracket to fill in the blank.
The State media houses present ______ (vociferous) views compared to private media.
(A) political
(B) biased
(C) mild
(D) assertive

Q245.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
The meeting / will taking / place next / Wednesday.
(A) place next
(B) will taking
(C) The meeting
(D) Wednesday.

Q246.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word in the following sentence to fill in the blank.
The setting sun turned the ________(calm) ocean into a sea of gold.
(A) volatile
(B) placid
(C) furtive
(D) scattered

Q247.
Select the option that corrects the following sentence.
All the workers have called of the strike.
(A) All the workers have called at the strike.
(B) All the workers have called through the strike.
(C) All the workers have called between the strike.
(D) All the workers have called off the strike.

Q248.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
The ministir ordered the engineers to build roads through high mountains and bridges across deep ravines in a week.
(A) Ravines
(B) Engineers
(C) Ministir
(D) Bridges

Q249.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the following sentence.
Had you been to Dubai, I would also go with you.
(A) I shall be gone
(B) I will have went
(C) I would has also gone
(D) I would have gone

Q250.
Select the option that will improve the given sentence by using the most appropriate verb.
That Macbook belong to Xavier.
(A) That Macbook is belonged to Xavier.
(B) That Macbook belongs to Xavier.
(C) That Macbook belonging to Xavier.
(D) That Macbook is belong to Xavier.

Q251.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
(1) When Christy (2) grew out, (3) he turned out (4) to be a gentleman.
(A) 4
(B) 3
(C) 2
(D) 1

Q252.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the given sentence.
The recent cloudburst completely dismantled the village and its people.
(A) took back
(B) took apart
(C) took after
(D) took up

Q253.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Mrs. Lakshmi’s purchases add around to ₹2,650.
(A) purchases add out to
(B) purchases add from to
(C) purchases add up to
(D) purchases add for to

Q254.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word ‘Commence’ from the given sentence.
Let’s put an end to this discussion about voodoo and instead talk about something amusing.
(A) end
(B) voodoo
(C) amusing
(D) discussion

Q255.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
She / did not watched / Frankenstein / last night.
(A) did not watched
(B) Frankenstein
(C) She
(D) last night.

Q256.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Things that do not come from the ground not safe to compost.
(A) has not been safe
(B) are not safe
(C) is not safe
(D) be not safe

Q257.
Select the correct spelling of the underlined word in the given sentence.
She decided to file a complaint with HR after being harrasad by her supervisor for several weeks.
(A) harassed
(B) harrassd
(C) harrased
(D) harased

Q258.
The following sentence has been divided into four parts. Identify the part that contains an error.
(A) I am hearing / (B) that the heat wave / (C) is going to be / (D) worse this year.
(A) B
(B) D
(C) C
(D) A

Q259.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the following sentence.
If you do hard work, you will have the expected results.
(A) good results
(B) required results
(C) desired results
(D) bad results

Q260.
Select the option with the correct use of present tense.
(A) She spended all her money on make-up in order to look beautiful.
(B) She had spend all her money on make-up in order to look beautiful.
(C) She spends all her money on make-up in order to look beautiful.
(D) She has spend all her money on make-up in order to look beautiful.

Q261.
There is a spelling error in the given sentence. Select the option that contains the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
He was thrilled when he heard about there journey to wonderland.
(A) journey
(B) thrilled
(C) there
(D) heard

Q262.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The guard did not want anything bad to happen, so he ordered the group to step back to avoid anything ________.
(A) customary
(B) terrible
(C) habitual
(D) diplomatic

Q263.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
When it / come to football, / my brother is / an addict.
(A) come to football
(B) an addict.
(C) my brother is
(D) When it

Q264.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
Don’t go / outside / because it is / raining heavy.
(A) Don’t go
(B) outside
(C) raining heavy.
(D) because

Q265.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
This makes readers contemplate the motives people have for performing acts of charity.
(A) understate
(B) follow up
(C) overlook
(D) deviate

Q266.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the given sentence.
Even in cold weather, the reliable car always started on the first try.
(A) dependable
(B) inaccurate
(C) erratic
(D) flaky

Q267.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the given sentence.
Modest stores and welcoming residents populated the charming tiny town.
(A) delightful
(B) unpleasant
(C) hideous
(D) nasty

Q268.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the given sentence.
The family was saved from the burning building by the brave firefighter.
(A) fearless
(B) unafraid
(C) timid
(D) cowardly

Q269.
Fill in the blank with the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Gentlemen always go for a lawful approach, but rouges choose ______ ways to solve problems.
(A) legal
(B) legitimate
(C) sophisticated
(D) illicit

Q270.
Select the most appropriate option that can best replace the bracketed word to fill in the blank
His ________ stature was not a measure of his overall personality. (scrawny)
(A) muscular
(B) thin
(C) keen
(D) sickly

Q271.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains an error.
Throw of / the old shoes; / nobody will wear / them now.
(A) them now.
(B) nobody will wear
(C) the old shoes
(D) Throw of

Q272.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
She was fond of walking along the path besides the lake.
(A) besides the lake
(B) along the path
(C) She was
(D) fond of walking

Q273.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The organisation’s furtive actions must be taken into notice and dealt with accordingly.
(A) Futuristic
(B) Truthful
(C) Shady
(D) Foxy

Q274.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the following sentence.
We are decorate the living-room at the moment.
(A) We are being decorating
(B) We are being decorate
(C) We are decorates
(D) We are decorating

Q275.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word ‘bold’ in the given sentence.
A person can be friendly, timid, clever, or fearless based on the context of the situation.
(A) friendly
(B) clever
(C) timid
(D) fearless

Q276.
Select the most appropriate option to correct the sentence by using the proper meaning of the underlined word.
He scores good marks in exams as he is quite meticulous.
(A) Selective
(B) Careful
(C) Intelligent
(D) Lazy

Q277.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
The shop / usually opened / ten minutes / late.
(A) usually opened
(B) late.
(C) The shop
(D) ten minutes

Q278.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
When Serena / will arrive, / she will / call you.
(A) call you
(B) will arrive
(C) she will
(D) When Serena

Q279.
Select the most appropriate option to correct the sentence by using the denotation of the underlined word.
Mr. Sen is clever enough to handle his professional hazards.
(A) Foolish
(B) Callous
(C) Intelligent
(D) Bold

Q280.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
This is best book for children to read.
(A) This is the best book
(B) This is good book
(C) This is very good book
(D) This is very best book

Q281.
The following sentence has been divided into four parts. Identify the part that contains an error.
(A) It is sad / (B) that you / (C) are believing / (D) in superstitious rituals.
(A) A
(B) C
(C) B
(D) D

Q282.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains an error.
She shall being / travelling / by this time / tomorrow.
(A) travelling
(B) She shall being
(C) by this time
(D) tomorrow

Q283.
Identify the incorrectly spelt word and select its correct spelling.
It is his previlage to present all the candidates for ordination to the bishop of the diocese.
(A) deocease
(B) privilege
(C) prevalage
(D) odination

Q284.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word ‘Contaminate’ from the given sentence.
She spent the entire night working non-stop to clean the blood stains from the rug.
(A) rug
(B) spent
(C) working
(D) clean

Q285.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word segment in the following sentence.
They are leaving there coats there.
(A) their coats there
(B) they’re coats there
(C) there coats their
(D) their coats their

Q286.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM for the underlined word in the given sentence.
Because the politician made a candid speech, he earned the respect of the voters.
(A) Reticent
(B) Prudent
(C) Deceitful
(D) Reckless

Q287.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The road which connecting the two states is overcrowded.
(A) connected
(B) connects
(C) has connecting
(D) have connected

Q288.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
She will being studying for her exams tomorrow.
(A) studying
(B) tomorrow
(C) will being
(D) exams

Q289.
Identify the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word based on the context of the sentence.
He gave a haughty consent without honouring him with a single word.
(A) Proud
(B) Happy
(C) Modest
(D) Indifferent

Q290.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Riding a horse was a piece of cake for him.
(A) an everyday affair
(B) a very easy task
(C) confusing work
(D) a very difficult task

Q291.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Select the option that has the segment with a grammatical error.
She always / likes to / show on / her wealth.
(A) show on
(B) she always
(C) likes to
(D) her wealth.

Q292.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Select the option that has the segment with a grammatical error.
The class / teacher was / wounded in / a leg.
(A) a leg.
(B) teacher was
(C) wounded in
(D) The class

Q293.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence.
This win could enhance to be a historic turning point in the fortunes of the team.
(A) prove
(B) demonstrate
(C) accomplish
(D) confirm

Q294.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Yoga may manage pain and helping reduce stress.
(A) help reduction for
(B) helped reduce
(C) help reduced
(D) help in reducing

Q295.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The United Nations is working to eliminate the vicious cycle of poverty.
(A) The barrier of poverty
(B) One problem causes other
(C) Loophole of something
(D) Strength of something

Q296.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
If it will rain tomorrow, I will stay at home.
(A) I will
(B) at home
(C) will rain
(D) If it

Q297.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word given in brackets to fill in the blank.
Her voice, soft and ________, (shrill) flowed effortlessly through the room.
(A) mellow
(B) nasal
(C) croaky
(D) piercing

Q298.
Select the option to replace the incorrect word in the following sentence.
Chotu is a bright young child, who yearn to go to school but works in his uncle’s dhaba.
(A) worked
(B) working
(C) yearns
(D) yearned

Q299.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word ‘Plausible’ from the given sentence.
The trend of improvement is unlikely to continue for the foreseeable future.
(A) unlikely
(B) trend
(C) foreseeable
(D) future

Q300.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the given sentence.
There was enough room in the spacious flat for all of our furniture.
(A) tiny
(B) cozy
(C) roomy
(D) cramped

Q301.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Well, I prefer eating at home from eating out.
(A) and eating out
(B) than eating out
(C) while eating out
(D) to eating out

Q302.
Identify the grammatical error in the following sentence and select the correct tense from the options given below.
I have met my friend yesterday.
(A) had been meeting
(B) was meeting
(C) met my friend
(D) have been meeting

Q303.
There is a spelling error in the given sentence. Select the option that contains the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
The mighty gaint brought a marigold for the princess.
(A) gaint
(B) princess
(C) marigold
(D) mighty

Q304.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
He has grown into a beautiful youth.
(A) in a beautiful youth
(B) a beautiful youth
(C) in a handsome youth
(D) into a handsome youth

Q305.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word in the following sentence to fill in the blank.
The meeting was brought to a ________ (rapid) conclusion.
(A) stubborn
(B) pervious
(C) grim
(D) hasty

Q306.
Rectify the sentence by selecting the correct spelling from the options.
Psycology developed as a significant discipline of study in the twentieth century.
(A) Pscycology
(B) Psychology
(C) Pcychology
(D) Pscichology

Q307.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Dhruv’s anger blazed of uncontrollably.
(A) anger blazed onwards
(B) anger blazed after
(C) anger blazed up
(D) anger blazed into

Q308.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
One of my best friends are here.
(A) better friends are here
(B) best friends is here
(C) better friends is here
(D) best friend is here

Q309.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence.
This book provides an unrestrained account of the natural resources in India.
(A) exhausting
(B) limlited
(C) exhaustive
(D) excessive

Q310.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains an error.
Shall have / you bring / your note-book / tomorrow?
(A) Shall have
(B) you bring
(C) tomorrow
(D) your note-book

Q311.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
‘Vande Mataram’, a poignant poem, is obviously and indisputebly the premier national song of India.
(A) Obviously
(B) Premier
(C) Indisputebly
(D) Poignant

Q312.
Select the most appropriate spelling of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Nobody could move on after such a scandlous allegation is made on them.
(A) skandelous
(B) scandalous
(C) scandelous
(D) scendolous

Q313.
Select the most appropriate idiom to complete the given sentence.
With the increasing market prices and stagnant salaries, he is _________.
(A) taking a break
(B) feeling the pinch
(C) beating the rap
(D) getting it off his chest

Q314.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
Are today / a working day / or a / holiday?
(A) Are today
(B) holiday
(C) a working day
(D) or a

Q315.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The technicians who were repairing the broken elevator called it a day.
(A) Felt unhappy
(B) Shouted with anger
(C) Stopped to take a short break
(D) Stopped work for the day

Q316.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the following sentence.
The company do not broke the law at any time.
(A) do not brakes
(B) did not breaking
(C) did not broken
(D) does not break

Q317.
Select the most appropriate spelling of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The prison is euphemistically called a ‘rehabillitation centre’.
(A) rehabilition
(B) rehabilitation
(C) rehbilitation
(D) rehabilation

Q318.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The new chief is gifted at the power of eloquence.
(A) gifted with
(B) gifted for
(C) gifted among
(D) gifted of

Q319.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
The Chinese are believed to have a longer history than that of any other civilisation in the wolrd.
(A) Wolrd
(B) Civilisation
(C) Believed
(D) Chinese

Q320.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
His feeble opponent was no match to him and ultimately he won the challenge.
(A) Strong
(B) Mystic
(C) Major
(D) Intelligent

Q321.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
All the players from this athletic club participated in the tournament and _______ one of them got a medal.
(A) none
(B) each
(C) they
(D) all

Q322.
There is a spelling error in the given sentence. Select the option that contains the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
They adressed the special gathering perfectly.
(A) adressed
(B) special
(C) gathering
(D) perfectly

Q323.
Select the option that rectifies the spelling of the underlined word in the given sentence.
It was a privvilege to receive the award from the President.
(A) privilegge
(B) privileege
(C) privilege
(D) privillege

Q324.
Select the most appropriate synonym of ‘amazement’ to fill the blank.
Leena was filled with _______ when she saw the diamond ring as her wedding gift.
(A) happiness
(B) measurement
(C) haughtiness
(D) astonishment

Q325.
Identify the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following sentence.
There is no transparency in the procedure followed by the company.
(A) Coherence
(B) Reliability
(C) Clarity
(D) Opacity

Q326.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the sentence.
He laboured very hard but could not yield anything from the barren piece of land.
(A) Fertile
(B) Fruitless
(C) Vile
(D) Sterile

Q327.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The movie ‘Desperate Ghosts’ was watched by my younger brother and he was ____________ horror.
(A) filled with
(B) filled of
(C) filled on
(D) filled off

Q328.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM for the underlined word in the given sentence.
He feels that wealthy people view him with contempt because he is poor.
(A) Derision
(B) Admiration
(C) Scorn
(D) Obscurity

Q329.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The teacher asked the students to ______ electricity by switching off lights when they left the room.
(A) save
(B) deposit
(C) rescue
(D) retain

Q330.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
There is no way I can swallow the ghastly medicine.
(A) horrible
(B) comforting
(C) agreeable
(D) pleasant

Q331.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the following sentence.
Rohit is write to them three times.
(A) Rohit was beings written
(B) Rohit was write
(C) Rohit had write
(D) Rohit has written

Q332.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the given sentence.
He got medals time after time by following the instructions of his mentor.
(A) Repeatedly
(B) Twice
(C) Rarely
(D) Once

Q333.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the given sentence.
She argued against the unnecessary split in the committee.
(A) division
(B) blend
(C) combination
(D) mix

Q334.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a grammatical error.
The new / secretary / does not likes / me.
(A) me.
(B) secretary
(C) The new
(D) does

Q335.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
Emily is a American living in Paris for her work.
(A) a American
(B) living in Paris
(C) Emily is
(D) for

Q336.
Rectify the sentence by selecting the correct spelling from the options.
The advertisement of vacencies in education sector has received huge response.
(A) Vecencies
(B) Vacansies
(C) Vecancies
(D) Vacancies

Q337.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence.
I was looking for a barren seat in the bus but could not find one.
(A) hollow seat
(B) deserted seat
(C) vacant seat
(D) vacuous seat

Q338.
Which of the following sentences contains the ANTONYM of the word ‘ignore’?
(A) Avoid foods which make you sick.
(B) He did not succeed in gaining custody of his daughter.
(C) Ritika recognised Kavita in the gathering.
(D) To keep a tidy kitchen, do not neglect washing your dishes.

Q339.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
A distinguished academecian, Amartya Sen has taught in India, Britain and the United States.
(A) Academecian
(B) Taught
(C) Britain
(D) Distinguished

Q340.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following sentence.
I have left it to his discretion to accept or decline my offer.
(A) Wisdom
(B) Calculation
(C) Inattention
(D) Judgement

Q341.
Select the most appropriate homophones to fill in the blanks.
Her father _________ her to opt for a chemistry __________ in her final year.
(A) aloud; course
(B) aloud; coarse
(C) allowed; coarse
(D) allowed; course

Q342.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank and complete the sentence.
You just wait in the lobby. I will be back after _________.
(A) a fast meal
(B) a quick shower
(C) a fast shower
(D) a quick food

Q343.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains a spelling error.
I was alarmed lest we should be wreked.
(A) I was
(B) be wreked.
(C) we should
(D) alarmed lest

Q344.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence.
Allusive handwriting creates a poor impression.
(A) Legal handwriting
(B) Eligible handwriting
(C) Descriptive handwriting
(D) Illegible handwriting

Q345.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Out of the frying pan and into the fire
(A) Things getting intense by the hour
(B) Being a horrible cook
(C) Being with someone through good times as well as bad times
(D) Things going from bad to worse

Q346.
Fill in the blank with the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
In spring the leaves are bright green, whereas they appear ______ in autumn.
(A) gleaming
(B) luminous
(C) dazzling
(D) dull

Q347.
Select the most appropriate option of the given word to fill in the blank.
The new construction sites have ________ attack by the environmentalists.
(A) come off
(B) come upon
(C) come under
(D) come out

Q348.
Select the option that can substitute the bracketed word segment meaningfully.
Writing can instil a number of emotions (as in a reader).
(A) until a reader
(B) among a reader
(C) within a reader
(D) instead a reader

Q349.
Identify the incorrectly spelt word and select its correct spelling.
There are a number of artists currently creating unique, collectble teapots.
(A) currantly
(B) collectable
(C) collectibile
(D) currintly

Q350.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The realtors of the new venture sold plots like hot cakes.
(A) Sold innovatively
(B) Sold quickly and in large numbers
(C) Sold illegally
(D) Sold with great difficulty

Q351.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
We should not discriminate against people who are different from us.
(A) differentiate
(B) divide
(C) part
(D) sever

Q352.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
An old head on young shoulders
(A) A young person who looks old.
(B) A young person who is lazy.
(C) A person who is slow at understanding things.
(D) A young person who acts or speaks like an older person.

Q353.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the following sentence.
There was some drawing-pins in my desk.
(A) There is some
(B) There has some
(C) Theirs some
(D) There are some

Q354.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The CEO called for compulsory participation from each employee.
(A) Voluntary
(B) Compliantly
(C) Obligatory
(D) Overtly

Q355.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
I have observed that there is proper natural ____________ even at 6 o'clock on summer mornings.
(A) light
(B) sparkle
(C) lucent
(D) gleam

Q356.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The waters of Germany are abundant in fish, but there are few genera and species in them.
(A) deficient
(B) flourish
(C) allay
(D) discord

Q357.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The teacher asked the students to _______ attention towards the instructions given for the project.
(A) make
(B) keen
(C) had
(D) pay

Q358.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Seema has a dominating nature, so she wants to ___________ of everything in her life.
(A) keep touch
(B) keep calm
(C) keep record
(D) keep control

Q359.
Select the option to fill in the blank with the most appropriate collocation.
In boarding schools, students need to ________ by themselves.
(A) wash the bed
(B) turn the bed
(C) make the bed
(D) run the bed

Q360.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The coach was optimistic that Ronald will play the quarter final.
(A) Tasteful
(B) Cheerful
(C) Doubtful
(D) Helpful

Q361.
The following sentence has been divided into four parts. Identify the part that contains an error.
This is / a doll / and there is / a umbrella.
(A) This is
(B) a doll
(C) and there is
(D) a umbrella.

Q362.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
After a day long trek, we were so tired that we were ready to _________.
(A) face the music
(B) get into deep water
(C) go from rags to riches
(D) hit the sack

Q363.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
It will take two hours to walk across the forest.
(A) through
(B) over
(C) away
(D) between

Q364.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the following sentence.
If it is sunny tomorrow, we go for a picnic.
(A) will going
(B) will went
(C) will go
(D) goes

Q365.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
His opponents viewed him as stubborn, dogmatic, and inflexible.
(A) Dishonest
(B) Biased
(C) Careless
(D) Amenable

Q366.
Select the option that rectifies the spelling of the underlined word in the given sentence.
It has been a usual ocurrence for a few days now.
(A) occerrence
(B) occurrance
(C) occurence
(D) occurrence

Q367.
Complete the given sentence with an appropriate homophone from the given options.
It is better to focus on your _________ than to wander aimlessly.
(A) carrier
(B) courier
(C) career
(D) carreer

Q368.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the following sentence.
There was a noise that was wake me up.
(A) woken me up
(B) has woke me up
(C) woke me up
(D) wakes me up

Q369.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the given sentence.
Loud noise effects our ability to concentrate.
(A) affects
(B) bestows
(C) results
(D) intensifies

Q370.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Few people turned up to attend the tawdry promo of the new movie.
(A) Elegant
(B) Showy
(C) Inferior
(D) Gawdy

Q371.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Have a bee in your bonnet
(A) Be preoccupied or obsessed with something
(B) Unable to stay at a place for long
(C) To keep worrying about yourself
(D) Having a cruel intention or grudge against someone

Q372.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
My grandmother is fond of giving homilies to all my friends who visit my place.
(A) Suggestions
(B) Sermons
(C) Alternatives
(D) Strictures

Q373.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The meeting closed with a vote of thanks.
(A) completed
(B) finished
(C) stopped
(D) concluded

Q374.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The skunk had a conspicuous spinal stripe.
(A) obscure
(B) charming
(C) noticeable
(D) faint

Q375.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the following sentence.
Play cards is not allowed here
(A) Play card
(B) Played cards
(C) Playing cards
(D) Playing card

Q376.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
Vishnu and Vignesh are always like two peas in a pod.
(A) Very similar to each other
(B) Smart and intelligent
(C) Happy and compassionate
(D) Good in every way

Q377.
Identify the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The vendor said that the apples were of superior quality.
(A) Excellent
(B) Distasteful
(C) Small
(D) Inferior

Q378.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
bread and butter
(A) An activity you do to get help others
(B) An activity you do with determination
(C) An activity you do to improve your culinary skills
(D) An activity you do to get money for basic needs

Q379.
There is a spelling error in the given sentence. Select the option that contains the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
The choice of buying a yahct was poor.
(A) buying
(B) yahct
(C) choice
(D) poor

Q380.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the sentence.
She was asked by the elders to wear a skirt covering her knees.
(A) Exposing
(B) Expanding
(C) Expecting
(D) Expounding

Q381.
Identify the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following sentence.
Harry’s behaviour was very blunt during his school days.
(A) Excited
(B) Polite
(C) Dull
(D) Curious

Q382.
Select the option with the correct use of future tense.
(A) I hope your health is getting better by next week.
(B) I hope your health will get better by next week.
(C) I hope your health have been getting better by next week.
(D) I hope your health is get better by next week.

Q383.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The vendor said that the apples were of superior quality.
(A) Excellent
(B) Inferior
(C) Small
(D) Distasteful

Q384.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the given sentence.
The professor did an objective evaluation.
(A) unfair
(B) prejudiced
(C) unbiased
(D) unjust

Q385.
Select the most appropriate homophones to fill in the blanks.
I ________ that he has been promoted to the post of _____ officer.
(A) herd; sealing
(B) heard; sealing
(C) herd; ceiling
(D) heard; ceiling

Q386.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Do not later about the street.
(A) loiter around
(B) litre about
(C) litter about
(D) latter about

Q387.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Anthony Trollope was an industrious and disciplined writer.
(A) Exhausting
(B) Skittish
(C) Dizzy
(D) Lazy

Q388.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following sentence.
My most vivid recollection of that summer is the ocean.
(A) Vague
(B) Eloquent
(C) Pictorial
(D) Lucid

Q389.
Select the most appropriate synonym that can replace the underlined word in the given sentence.
It did not take her very long to ascend to power.
(A) grab
(B) climb
(C) reach
(D) arise

Q390.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The captain dropped the trophy while he ________the victory with his teammates.
(A) celebrated
(B) celebrates
(C) is celebrating
(D) was

Q391.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
He is just jealous that he didn’t get picked for the job.
(A) envious
(B) spiteful
(C) greedy
(D) suspicious

Q392.
Which of the following sentences contains the ANTONYM of the word ‘important’?
(A) You always make me do all the trivial stuff.
(B) -
(C) Namita also makes some very salient points in her newly revised preface.
(D) I have some urgent questions for you.

Q393.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Mahima is as smarter as Shilpi.
(A) as smart as
(B) more smart as
(C) most smart as
(D) smartest

Q394.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The dictator ordered the traitor were jailed.
(A) is
(B) to be
(C) might
(D) was

Q395.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word from the given sentence.
They were good-hearted girls, unclean, clothed in rags and profiundly ignorant.
(A) Hearted
(B) Profiundly
(C) Unclean
(D) Clothed

Q396.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The painting look good in this room.
(A) have looking
(B) looking
(C) had look
(D) looks

Q397.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The government is planning to abolish child care leave for female employees.
(A) Ensure
(B) Eradicate
(C) Encourage
(D) Establish

Q398.
Select the most appropriate spelling of the underlined word in the given sentence.
He lost all senisation in his legs through a cramp.
(A) syansation
(B) sensition
(C) sansation
(D) sensation

Q399.
Identify the incorrectly spelt word and select its correct spelling.
Wether we want to admit it or not, we all wish everyone would like us.
(A) addmit
(B) whether
(C) admitt
(D) whither

Q400.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
After finishing all my pending assignments, I plan to ________ in Goa.
(A) land a meal
(B) forgive a debt
(C) take a holiday
(D) go bankrupt

Q401.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The performance of the team in the lost match was dismal.
(A) Luminous
(B) Sadden
(C) Cheap
(D) Dainty

Q402.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
I like played cricket after school.
(A) playing
(B) play
(C) played
(D) having to play

Q403.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
His industrious attitude was the reason for his promotion.
(A) Efficient
(B) Hazy
(C) Lazy
(D) Pricey

Q404.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
The west Africans have a heritage of produsing sculpture using wax and bronze.
(A) Sculpture
(B) Bronze
(C) Heritage
(D) Produsing

Q405.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Vihaan is clumsy at dancing.
(A) all thumbs
(B) easy handed
(C) master skill
(D) heavy duty

Q406.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word given in brackets to fill in the blank.
You can’t stop the _________ (outflow) of current.
(A) deluge
(B) influx
(C) torrent
(D) income

Q407.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following sentence.
You should never visit her without her consent.
(A) Approval
(B) Permission
(C) Knowledge
(D) Refusal

Q408.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
Mala ____________ by cheating on the exam to win her bet with Priya.
(A) get the sack
(B) look down upon
(C) hit below the belt
(D) fell out

Q409.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
We feel warm on the subject
(A) warmly about
(B) warming about
(C) warmer on
(D) warmed on

Q410.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that contains an error.
I will be study around 7 o’clock.
(A) around 7 o’clock
(B) be study
(C) will
(D) I

Q411.
Select the option that corrects the following sentence.
He has broken his leg yesterday.
(A) He broke his leg yesterday.
(B) He had broke his leg yesterday.
(C) He have broken his leg yesterday.
(D) He has broke his leg yesterday.

Q412.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
There is no place on the bench.
(A) more space
(B) no life
(C) more place
(D) no room

Q413.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
I find that students nowadays are not interested in _________ letters by hand.
(A) rioting
(B) rating
(C) writing
(D) righting

Q414.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Please don’t touch that, it’s flammable .
(A) Non-combustible
(B) Nonexplosive
(C) Incendiary
(D) Fire-resistant

Q415.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word ‘echoed’ to fill in the blank.
The thunderous applause ________ through the stadium.
(A) reverberated
(B) recoiled
(C) bounced
(D) pulsed

Q416.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word segment in the following sentence.
It is a high-pay job.
(A) high-paying
(B) low-paid
(C) high-paid
(D) low-pay

Q417.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Rahul had strong pain in his stomach.
(A) severe
(B) high
(C) deep
(D) strict

Q418.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
Teja followed his friend’s advice so now he is in deep water.
(A) In deep thoughts
(B) In dilemma
(C) In trouble
(D) In good position

Q419.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following sentence.
There is also an increase in juvenile delinquency.
(A) Teenage
(B) Adult
(C) Puerile
(D) Minor

Q420.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The stone was also said to have occult powers.
(A) latent
(B) intelligible
(C) ambiguous
(D) unfathomable

Q421.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Ria is liked by everyone as she is very amicable.
(A) Hateful
(B) Unfriendly
(C) Stupid
(D) Dangerous

Q422.
Choose an appropriate word that can substitute the bracketed word and complete the sentence meaningfully.
He never (talks) the truth.
(A) speaks
(B) declares
(C) narrates
(D) utters

Q423.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
I will require a quiet room to work at.
(A) on
(B) about
(C) with
(D) in

Q424.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the sentence.
He tried to improve the working conditions in his office.
(A) Spatter
(B) Sprinkle
(C) Specify
(D) Spoil

Q425.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence.
Mothers have great animosity for their children.
(A) affection
(B) absurdity
(C) affectation
(D) abasement

Q426.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
It was her who first saw the criminal.
(A) she
(B) them
(C) hers
(D) him

Q427.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence.
She's under the allusion that she'll get the job.
(A) illusion
(B) hallucination
(C) vision
(D) unreality

Q428.
Select the option with the correct use of article(s).
(A) I was rude to him when I was in an fit of rage.
(B) I was rude to him when I was in fit of rage.
(C) I was rude to him when I was in the fit of rage.
(D) I was rude to him when I was in a fit of rage.

Q429.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Language interacts with all aspects of human life and society.
(A) co-operates
(B) interrelates
(C) disconnects
(D) intermingles

Q430.
Choose an appropriate word that can substitute the bracketed word and complete the sentence meaningfully.
What is the time (in) your watch?
(A) by
(B) with
(C) into
(D) on

Q431.
Select the most appropriate pair of words to fill in the blanks.
Yesterday, he ________ pizza and ________ burgers in one go.
(A) eight; ate
(B) ate; ate
(C) eight; eight
(D) ate; eight

Q432.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of words.
Hospital for people with mental illnesses
(A) Hangar
(B) Druggist
(C) Asylum
(D) Shelter

Q433.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Please take many as you want.
(A) so much
(B) as much
(C) too much
(D) much of

Q434.
Identify the incorrectly spelt word and select its correct spelling.
The calandar was reformed during the time of Julius Caesar.
(A) reeformed
(B) celender
(C) riformed
(D) calendar

Q435.
Select the most appropriate homophone to fill in the blank.
The mechanics tried a lot to get that car __________ from the accident spot.
(A) told
(B) towed
(C) toed
(D) toad

Q436.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
For Rana, unable to see a thing, the parade seemed to last forever.
(A) hiding
(B) darkness
(C) concealment
(D) procession

Q437.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The artist received a ___________ from the audience.
(A) handful of applause
(B) round of applause
(C) bunch of applause
(D) plenty of applause

Q438.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The athlete looked unsettled before the race.
(A) Confident
(B) Reticent
(C) Triumphant
(D) Tangent

Q439.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The bride had a big villa in comparison to the bridegroom’s ______ house.
(A) large
(B) small
(C) distinct
(D) different

Q440.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Rosy and Nicky couldn’t provide any evidence to support ________ arguments.
(A) there
(B) theirs
(C) their
(D) they’re

Q441.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The committee deposed him from his office.
(A) Interacted
(B) Demolished
(C) Promoted
(D) Segregated

Q442.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
She ________ gracefully and greeted the interview committee with respect.
(A) grinned
(B) leered
(C) smiled
(D) smirked

Q443.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
This gun should be handled with care and ____________.
(A) nip in the bud
(B) shot for safety
(C) mince the matters
(D) kept at arm’s length

Q444.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The humble pupil sat on the floor with respect.
(A) Capitalist
(B) Corrupt
(C) Sturdy
(D) Proud

Q445.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Once bitten, thrice shy.
(A) always shy
(B) never shy
(C) once shy
(D) twice shy

Q446.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
She went on a shopping spree with her friend and made him _______ the fat bill.
(A) paid
(B) do
(C) pay
(D) give

Q447.
Complete the given sentence with an appropriate homophone from the given options.
There was no one __________ a few of my friends.
(A) except
(B) expect
(C) accept
(D) excerpt

Q448.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
He is almost quiet well.
(A) almost quietly
(B) quiet
(C) very quite
(D) quite

Q449.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The company has to be able to compete globally.
(A) Support
(B) Attack
(C) Pervert
(D) Impede

Q450.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
It took 4 hours straight to ___________ the deal with the regional company.
(A) stop
(B) get
(C) perform
(D) close

Q451.
Identify the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following sentence.
A boisterous horse must have a rough bridle.
(A) Rowdy
(B) Loud
(C) Bouncy
(D) Calm

Q452.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
Prakash could not make up his mind about what to do with the project.
(A) Abandon
(B) Think
(C) Abide
(D) Decide

Q453.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
How can you be so joyless on hearing the news?
(A) Beaming
(B) Rapt
(C) Blissful
(D) Dubious

Q454.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Many developing nations are having a ___________ economy these days.
(A) boosting
(B) resounding
(C) ringing
(D) booming

Q455.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The __________ purpose of the coaching was to identify the talented players.
(A) mane
(B) mine
(C) mean
(D) main

Q456.
Complete the following sentence.
He ______ to the manager about the terrible food in the hostel.
(A) He made a complaint .
(B) He terribly complained.
(C) He said a complaint .
(D) He said a big complaint .

Q457.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence.
It is my custom to get up early in the morning.
(A) addiction
(B) perfection
(C) oddity
(D) habit

Q458.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
I was in Oman around two months.
(A) from
(B) for
(C) into
(D) since

Q459.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The truth was revealed in the interrogation.
(A) Evident
(B) Found
(C) Declared
(D) Concealed

Q460.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
He is not friendly with him in the office.
(A) Revel
(B) Hostile
(C) Gregarious
(D) Intelligent

Q461.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Ralph’s condition worsened in the hospital.
(A) Improved
(B) Scaled
(C) Changed
(D) Traversed

Q462.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
Shreya prefers wearing green coloured saree on marriage funcktions.
(A) Prefers
(B) Wearing
(C) Funcktions
(D) Marriage

Q463.
Identify the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
His jovial nature has won him many friends.
(A) Shrewd
(B) Miserable
(C) Dumb
(D) Cunning

Q464.
Select the most appropriate connotation to fill in the blank.
Raju is such a _________always prying into other people's business!
(A) cheeky
(B) stingy
(C) nosy
(D) perky

Q465.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The company's __________ commitment to sustainability is admirable.
(A) shakeable
(B) resolute
(C) wavering
(D) strong

Q466.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the following sentence.
They studied during three hours.
(A) by
(B) for
(C) at
(D) from

Q467.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Bells and whistles
(A) To take on a difficult task
(B) An innovative development
(C) At a serious disadvantage
(D) Attractive but unnecessary features added to products

Q468.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To throw dust in one’s eyes
(A) To talk in an abusive language
(B) To mislead someone by tricks
(C) To make someone blind forever
(D) To hit someone with stone

Q469.
Select the option that corrects the following sentence.
What are you looking around?
(A) What are you looking among?
(B) What are you looking for?
(C) What are you looking across?
(D) What are you looking through?

Q470.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Around the clock
(A) Something that is done at night
(B) Something that is done within one hour
(C) Something that is time bound
(D) Something that goes on day and night

Q471.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
My sister’s paintings were ________ at the national museum.
(A) in display
(B) on display
(C) upon display
(D) into display

Q472.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To cost an arm and a leg
(A) Someone is badly hurt
(B) Something is very expensive
(C) Someone does not have money to buy something
(D) Someone has borne losses

Q473.
Select the most appropriate homophone to fill in the blank.
Arun knows perfectly well how to mix the food items with __________.
(A) sauce
(B) saws
(C) sause
(D) source

Q474.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the following sentence.
His flight departs in 5:00 pm.
(A) of
(B) for
(C) at
(D) from

Q475.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the following sentence.
To avoid indigetion, it is necessary to chew food properly.
(A) chew
(B) necessary
(C) properly
(D) indigetion

Q476.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
I am doubtful about his story, though you seem to be ________.
(A) regretting
(B) uncertain
(C) pleasant
(D) convinced

Q477.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Sarita speaks French best.
(A) worst
(B) better
(C) good
(D) well

Q478.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Going through a sticky patch
(A) To experience a bad period in life
(B) Try to paste something unsuccessfully
(C) To walk on a muddy road
(D) To feel sad

Q479.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Mr. Stein is a very cold and hard man.
(A) Clement
(B) Relaxed
(C) Charitable
(D) Tolerant

Q480.
Select the most appropriate homophone to fill in the blank.
Namita still cannot _________ the pain of her cat’s untimely demise.
(A) bier
(B) bear
(C) beer
(D) bare

Q481.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The dog was agitated and bit the child.
(A) steady
(B) nerveless
(C) quiescent
(D) serene

Q482.
Identify the incorrectly spelt word and select its correct spelling.
Maybe he wanted to make sure he didn’t embarrese her.
(A) sware
(B) shure
(C) embarrass
(D) emberess

Q483.
Select the most appropriate option that collocates with ‘wish’ to fill in the blank.
The genie asked Aladdin to ________ a wish.
(A) make
(B) take
(C) ask
(D) tell

Q484.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Can I please request you all to stand up?
(A) require
(B) plead
(C) claim
(D) petition

Q485.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Serena _________ from fever since the 5th of this month.
(A) is suffering
(B) has been suffering
(C) suffers
(D) suffered

Q486.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blanks.
(Ø = No article)
_____ road to Taj Mahal passes through ___ forest.
(A) A; the
(B) Ø; Ø
(C) The; a
(D) A; a

Q487.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Lose heart
(A) To be suspicious of your success
(B) To get success by believing in yourself
(C) To stop believing that you can succeed
(D) To believe in your success

Q488.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The plot of the novel is very dull.
(A) Diverting
(B) Riveting
(C) Plodding
(D) Charming

Q489.
Select the most appropriate homonym to fill in the blank.
Please ___________more sugar to the juice so that it becomes sweeter.
(A) ad
(B) add
(C) aide
(D) aid

Q490.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
I am scared of snakes; likewise, you are ________ of lizards.
(A) passionate
(B) critical
(C) fond
(D) fearful

Q491.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Best thing since sliced bread
(A) Breaking news
(B) Something to be cautious about
(C) Extremely good, interesting
(D) Rated well amongst cooks

Q492.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Walk a tightrope
(A) To walk on a narrow road
(B) To act carefully in a difficult situation
(C) To be tensed about something
(D) To try and balance yourself

Q493.
Select the most appropriate homophone to fill in the blank.
These people are artists. ________ skills are extraordinary.
(A) They or
(B) There
(C) They’re
(D) Their

Q494.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
We should not run after transient pleasures of the world.
(A) Unnatural
(B) Sinful
(C) Permanent
(D) Joyful

Q495.
Identify the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
He worked alone as he did not want anyone to hamper his project.
(A) Care
(B) Help
(C) Impede
(D) Finish

Q496.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Tom is trying to ___________ as soon as possible.
(A) receive a job
(B) experience a job
(C) get a job
(D) learn a job

Q497.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Slip your mind
(A) Forget about something
(B) Think about something for a short time
(C) Immediately think of something
(D) Can’t think of anything to say

Q498.
Select the most appropriate to fill in the blank.
The boxer was knocked out cold by a powerful________ punch to the jaw.
(A) write
(B) wright
(C) rite
(D) right

Q499.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
His grandfather was quite grumpy .
(A) Possible
(B) Tenable
(C) Edible
(D) Amiable

Q500.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
It’s very cheap to display wealth by donning gaudy dresses.
(A) Scanty
(B) Ornate
(C) Cheap
(D) Sober

Q501.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
John is very generous; he regularly gives alms to the poor.
(A) popular
(B) great
(C) kind
(D) shrewd

Q502.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
In both countries we have leaders of ________ ability.
(A) powerful
(B) almighty
(C) compelling
(D) exceptional

Q503.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
The two brothers ___________ when their father died.
(A) fell down
(B) fell out
(C) got the sack
(D) look down upon

Q504.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
I left the job because of a hostile working environment.
(A) Morose
(B) Friendly
(C) Rustic
(D) Violent

Q505.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The rocky terrain made the hike difficult and strenuous.
(A) Demanding
(B) Lively
(C) Intense
(D) Easy

Q506.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The CEO's decision to cut benefits was a __________ move.
(A) harsh
(B) humorous
(C) rigorous
(D) laborious

Q507.
Fill in the blank using the correct collocation.
We need to ________ a decision on the housing project tomorrow morning.
(A) make
(B) draw
(C) build
(D) frame

Q508.
Select the correct collocation to complete the following sentence.
He made __________ use of the opportunity to travel.
(A) full
(B) total
(C) entire
(D) whole

Q509.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Costing an arm and a leg
(A) Very attractive and cheap
(B) Very rough and tough
(C) Very costly and luxurious
(D) Very entertaining and jovial

Q510.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
I was in the _________ of a meeting when somebody called me.
(A) centre
(B) corner
(C) round
(D) middle

Q511.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
No one trusts her as her reasons are always explicit .
(A) Precise
(B) Ambiguous
(C) Exact
(D) Distant

Q512.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
The removal of petty restrictions has made life easier.
(A) Big
(B) Consequential
(C) Large
(D) Small

Q513.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
A bolt from the blue
(A) A sudden and unexpected event
(B) Thunder and rain in a strom
(C) Raining heavily
(D) A spontaneous but expected event

Q514.
Identify the incorrectly spelt word and select its correct spelling.
You shall recieve proper pay for your work.
(A) resieve
(B) propper
(C) receive
(D) propeer

Q515.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Would you please support me for once in your life?
(A) establish
(B) refute
(C) document
(D) disclaim

Q516.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Prajakta is a very vain girl.
(A) Honourable
(B) Humble
(C) Honest
(D) Hopeful

Q517.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The growth of the cell wall is very rarely uniform.
(A) Paired
(B) Balanced
(C) Fixed
(D) Variegated

Q518.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
I don’t like dirty cars, so you should keep it ________.
(A) shabby
(B) similar
(C) new
(D) spotless

Q519.
Select the correct spelling of the underlined word in the following sentence.
I am contant with my day’s work.
(A) contint
(B) contante
(C) content
(D) cuntent

Q520.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The grass on my lawn is glistening with the morning__________.
(A) duo
(B) due
(C) dew
(D) do

Q521.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Yesterday, I ate only a __________ of apples for my dinner.
(A) pair
(B) pier
(C) pare
(D) pear

Q522.
Select the correct spelling of the underlined word.
He is one of the most underated players in the team.
(A) Undereted
(B) Underatted
(C) Underrated
(D) Underreted

Q523.
Select the most appropriate collocation to fill in the blank.
Ujjwal was imprisoned for ________ a crime.
(A) making
(B) undertaking
(C) committing
(D) involving

Q524.
Select the most appropriate connotation to fill in the blank.
I always love the _______ of my mother’s cooking.
(A) aroma
(B) stench
(C) perfume
(D) scent

Q525.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Which _________ do you usually take to reach your office?
(A) rude
(B) route
(C) root
(D) rout

Q526.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the sentence.
He purchased very cheap dresses.
(A) Expensive
(B) Doltish
(C) Lively
(D) Paltry

Q527.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
The girl tried to alleviate her brother’s problem.
(A) increase
(B) soar
(C) reduce
(D) worsen

Q528.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
It is the ____________ to reach Delhi.
(A) lowest route
(B) strongest route
(C) quickest route
(D) fastest route

Q529.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To read between the lines
(A) To grasp the hidden meaning
(B) To read without concentration
(C) To read aloud
(D) To whisper

Q530.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
The sun was shining bright and intense in the sky.
(A) Mild
(B) Strong
(C) Subtle
(D) Weak

Q531.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
She could easily eat the _________ biryani by herself.
(A) whole
(B) haul
(C) hall
(D) hole

Q532.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The ________ in my shoelace created a lot of trouble.
(A) not
(B) naught
(C) nought
(D) knot

Q533.
Identify the incorrectly spelt word and select its correct spelling.
This will sound weired, but bear with me.
(A) wired
(B) beer
(C) weird
(D) bier

Q534.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The news gave him inexpressible ecstasy.
(A) Delight
(B) Passion
(C) Depression
(D) Disappointment

Q535.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
My parents have a fertile land in the backyard.
(A) Barren
(B) Timid
(C) Scanty
(D) Potent

Q536.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Essays must be concise .
(A) Excise
(B) Lengthy
(C) Precise
(D) Total

Q537.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
He hasn’t _______ any attention to my miserable state.
(A) made
(B) had
(C) gave
(D) paid

Q538.
Select the most appropriate word to fill in the blank.
He has ___________ vision because of his illness.
(A) blurred
(B) unfocused
(C) obscured
(D) faded

Q539.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Spill the beans
(A) To help someone extraordinarily
(B) To leak a secret
(C) The act of loving beans
(D) Cook the beans carefully

Q540.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The cat’s entry into the store room was ___________.
(A) quite
(B) quiet
(C) cute
(D) quit

Q541.
Select the correct collocation to complete the following sentence.
She suppressed a __________ urge to yawn.
(A) tough
(B) stout
(C) hard
(D) strong

Q542.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Blowing smoke
(A) To tease someone relentlessly
(B) To hide something
(C) To burn something important
(D) To lie to perplex others

Q543.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
A sailor was __________through the high tides.
(A) ceiling
(B) sailing
(C) swelling
(D) selling

Q544.
Select the grammatically correct sentence.
(A) Ragini plays the guitar melodiously.
(B) Ragini plays the guitar melodious.
(C) Ragini plays the guitar with a melody.
(D) Ragini plays the guitar with melodiousness.

Q545.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Sell like hot cakes
(A) Extremely hot and humid
(B) Not bothering about money
(C) Selling out quickly
(D) Become very famous

Q546.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
Let us assume that we will do the job honestly.
(A) allow
(B) think
(C) take
(D) give

Q547.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Cost an arm and a leg
(A) To be moderately priced
(B) To be inexpensive
(C) To be very expensive
(D) To be affordable

Q548.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The _________ today will be cloudy and humid.
(A) wither
(B) waiter
(C) weather
(D) whether

Q549.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
I would like to reach the ________ of the Everest.
(A) peek
(B) pick
(C) pike
(D) peak

Q550.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
At one’s fingertips
(A) To be unaware of something
(B) To take revenge
(C) Out of reach
(D) To have complete knowledge

Q551.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Both the criminals were cruel and ________.
(A) sympathetic
(B) warm
(C) brutal
(D) diligent

Q552.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Where the shoe pinches
(A) Unknown paths
(B) Difficult roads
(C) Where the difficulty lies
(D) Where the shoe hurts

Q553.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The army advanced into enemy territory.
(A) Protruded
(B) Retreated
(C) Arose
(D) Commuted

Q554.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To be at daggers drawn
(A) To be about to collapse
(B) Ready to fight
(C) Under suspicion
(D) To be under control

Q555.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
We should desecrate our national flag.
(A) Integrate
(B) Sanctify
(C) Violate
(D) Damage

Q556.
The balloon started to deflate after being pricked with a needle. What is the ANTONYM of ‘deflate’?
(A) Flatten
(B) Compress
(C) Inflate
(D) Shrink

Q557.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Stick to one’s guns
(A) To become a rebel
(B) To shoot at
(C) To become unfaithful to
(D) To remain faithful to

Q558.
Identify the correct spelling of the underlined word.
The police issued a varant to the criminals.
(A) Warant
(B) Varrant
(C) Warent
(D) Warrant

Q559.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Fish out of water
(A) To be out of place
(B) No knowledge of marine life
(C) To die soon
(D) Not good at swimming

Q560.
Select the sentence in the future tense.
(A) I will be twenty five next Sunday.
(B) I have been twenty five next Sunday.
(C) I should be twenty five next Sunday.
(D) I could be twenty five next Sunday.

Q561.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Under the weather
(A) To feel secure
(B) To enjoy the weather
(C) To feel unwell
(D) To work against the weather

Q562.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
She was known for her refined manners.
(A) Crude
(B) Elegant
(C) Shrewd
(D) Brood

Q563.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The perfume she uses has a strong _________.
(A) sent
(B) scent
(C) cent
(D) send

Q564.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The crowd gave them a ________ of applause.
(A) yell
(B) load
(C) laugh
(D) round

Q565.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Dog eat dog
(A) Ruthlessly competitive
(B) Tit for tat
(C) Being calculative
(D) Like-minded people connect better

Q566.
Select the most appropriate homonym to fill in the blank.
__________is a red-coloured root vegetable.
(A) Beet
(B) Beat
(C) Bead
(D) Bit

Q567.
Choose the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Ace in the hole
(A) A lot to do
(B) On the point of
(C) A second chance to do something
(D) A hidden advantage

Q568.
Select the most appropriate homonym to fill in the blank.
The prince is the ____________to the throne.
(A) air
(B) heir
(C) err
(D) ere

Q569.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The encounter made the audience squirm.
(A) Speak
(B) Relax
(C) Chat
(D) Pray

Q570.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The poet was lost in a reverie.
(A) Reality
(B) Fantasy
(C) Daydream
(D) Trance

Q571.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) excluding large-scale
(B) excluding small-scale
(C) including small-scale
(D) including large-scale

Q572.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The ________ of the whale is 2 tonnes.
(A) wait
(B) weight
(C) vet
(D) wet

Q573.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
On its last legs
(A) Creeping on legs
(B) Last choice
(C) Slow movement
(D) In a bad condition

Q574.
Select the most appropriate homonym to fill in the blank.
Sonu eats _______ like a rabbit.
(A) karat
(B) carrot
(C) carat
(D) caret

Q575.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
A wild goose chase
(A) Ideal seeking
(B) Fruitless search
(C) Fruitful search
(D) On a hunt

Q576.
Select the most appropriate homophone to fill in the blank.
The hospital is ________ the river.
(A) buy
(B) by
(C) bye
(D) bi

Q577.
Select the most appropriate article to fill in the blank.
_________ bed you sleep in is broken.
(A) A
(B) On
(C) The
(D) An

Q578.
Select the grammatically INCORRECT sentence.
(A) They often meet each other.
(B) They always meet each other.
(C) They quite meet each other.
(D) They hardly meet each other.

Q579.
Select the appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Last resort
(A) Last hotel on the way
(B) Last ride
(C) Last friend remaining
(D) Last course of action

Q580.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Bag and baggage
(A) At the service
(B) By force
(C) With all goods
(D) Fair and honest

Q581.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Gift of the gab
(A) Witty
(B) Humorous
(C) Talent for speaking
(D) Talent for singing

Q582.
Select the most appropriate adverb to fill in the blank.
He comes here _________ .
(A) quickly
(B) formerly
(C) daily
(D) lately

Q583.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
He _________ a long distance
(A) runned
(B) running
(C) ran
(D) run

Q584.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Black and white
(A) In dispute
(B) A false invention
(C) In writing
(D) Doubtful

Q585.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) Blue Revolution
(B) Pink Revolution
(C) Green Revolution
(D) White Revolution

Q586.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
He _________ the truth.
(A) spoken
(B) speaking
(C) spoke
(D) speak

Q587.
Which of the following idioms means ‘going to sleep’?
(A) Keep an ear to the ground
(B) Run around in circles
(C) Break new grounds
(D) Hit the sack

Q588.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Put in mind
(A) To calculate
(B) To remind
(C) To forget
(D) To understand

Q589.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Despondency
(A) Hopelessness
(B) Satisfaction
(C) Cheerfulness
(D) Dejection

Q590.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) characterises
(B) characteristic
(C) characterised
(D) characterising

Q591.
Identify the most appropriate synonym of the following word.
Sceptical
(A) Incredulous
(B) Stoic
(C) Garrulous
(D) Insensitive

Q592.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Frivolity
(A) Consequence
(B) Substantial
(C) Meaningful
(D) Insignificance

Q593.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) were confessing
(B) had confessed
(C) confessed
(D) are confessing

Q594.
Identify the most appropriate synonym of the following word.
Implicate
(A) Complain
(B) Confuse
(C) Accuse
(D) Interrogate

Q595.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Resourceful
(A) Incompetent
(B) Ingenious
(C) Immaculate
(D) Impeccable

Q596.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) more easily
(B) more likely
(C) most easily
(D) most occasionally

Q597.
Select the most appropriate homonym to fill in the blank.
Ravi is _______.
(A) bawled
(B) balled
(C) baled
(D) bald

Q598.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) perceptions
(B) inspections
(C) observations
(D) invalidations

Q599.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) collaboration
(B) cooperation
(C) combination
(D) association

Q600.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Transient
(A) Permanent
(B) Transparent
(C) Transitory
(D) Irregular

Q601.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Injustice
(A) Discrimination
(B) Equality
(C) Complacency
(D) Demand

Q602.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Compulsory
(A) Optional
(B) Reliable
(C) Factional
(D) Full-fledged

Q603.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Resistance
(A) Awareness
(B) Tolerance
(C) Tenderness
(D) Reliance

Q604.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Indigenous
(A) Aboriginal
(B) Artificial
(C) Tangible
(D) Literary

Q605.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Important
(A) Recurring
(B) Productive
(C) Trivial
(D) Significant

Q606.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) In planting
(B) With planting
(C) By planting
(D) Planting

Q607.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Confidential
(A) Public
(B) Limited
(C) Secret
(D) Open source

Q608.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) can stopped
(B) may stopped
(C) should stop
(D) have stop

Q609.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Alluring
(A) Enticing
(B) Glamourous
(C) Repulsive
(D) Fascinating

Q610.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Remission
(A) Pardon
(B) Retribution
(C) Punishment
(D) Overlook

Q611.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) could believe
(B) will believe
(C) believes
(D) believed

Q612.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Advanced
(A) Foreign
(B) Progressive
(C) Discarded
(D) Elementary

Q613.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) pollinated
(B) fertilised
(C) germinated
(D) fructified

Q614.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 3.
(A) amalgamation
(B) indecision
(C) malpractices
(D) announcement

Q615.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Precarious
(A) Luminous
(B) Reliable
(C) Colossal
(D) Doubtful

Q616.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) carelessly
(B) systematically
(C) roughly
(D) partially

Q617.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Interpret
(A) Clarify
(B) Cleanse
(C) Celebrate
(D) Complicate

Q618.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) goal
(B) incompetency
(C) success
(D) self-sufficiency

Q619.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word
Abundance
(A) Fortune
(B) Excitement
(C) Scarcity
(D) Prosperity

Q620.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) popularity
(B) audacity
(C) irrationality
(D) capacity

Q621.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) sustainable
(B) innovative
(C) destructive
(D) harmful

Q622.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) assimilated
(B) analysed
(C) synthesised
(D) consumed

Q623.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) intriguing
(B) absorbing
(C) diverting
(D) escalating

Q624.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) conclusion
(B) derivation
(C) solution
(D) assumption

Q625.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Revolution
(A) Stagnation
(B) Gyration
(C) Harmony
(D) Order

Q626.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Peculiar
(A) Revolutionary
(B) Strange
(C) Frequent
(D) Usual

Q627.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) deviating
(B) alternating
(C) inconstant
(D) varying

Q628.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Forbidden
(A) Protected
(B) Prevented
(C) Banned
(D) Allowed

Q629.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Callous
(A) Cruel
(B) Generous
(C) Affectionate
(D) Exhausting

Q630.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) subjugating
(B) echoing
(C) favouring
(D) resembling

Q631.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Evasive
(A) Cohesive
(B) Ambiguous
(C) Accessible
(D) Abrasive

Q632.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Magnificent
(A) Modest
(B) Regular
(C) Humble
(D) Splendid

Q633.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) insipid
(B) mechanical
(C) rigorous
(D) conventional

Q634.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) united
(B) dissolved
(C) classified
(D) complicated

Q635.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Lethargic
(A) Exhausted
(B) Intelligent
(C) Active
(D) Cute

Q636.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Adverse
(A) Listless
(B) Striking
(C) Propitious
(D) Critical

Q637.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Fertile
(A) Productive
(B) Destructive
(C) Hectic
(D) Amusing

Q638.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Innocent
(A) Guilty
(B) Mischievous
(C) Unfair
(D) Righteous

Q639.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) Denigrate
(B) Complement
(C) Sustain
(D) Supplement

Q640.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Luminous
(A) Radiant
(B) Laborious
(C) Luxurious
(D) Amiable

Q641.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Impulsive
(A) Passive
(B) Aggressive
(C) Hasty
(D) Cautious

Q642.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Stingy
(A) Generous
(B) Humorous
(C) Lascivious
(D) Deceitful

Q643.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 4.
(A) psychological
(B) educational
(C) cultural
(D) religious

Q644.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Enormous
(A) Minute
(B) Strong
(C) Monstrous
(D) Tremendous

Q645.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Estimate
(A) Evaluate
(B) Appropriate
(C) Profit
(D) Verify

Q646.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Respect
(A) Honour
(B) Disrespect
(C) Attend
(D) Invalidate

Q647.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Competent
(A) Qualified
(B) Chatty
(C) Unskilled
(D) Dumb

Q648.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Wonderful
(A) Upright
(B) Synthetic
(C) Amazing
(D) Awful

Q649.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) comments
(B) commented
(C) commenting
(D) comment

Q650.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) caused
(B) excruciated
(C) paused
(D) discouraged

Q651.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) comparisons
(B) chances
(C) additions
(D) options

Q652.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Comical
(A) Tragic
(B) Remedial
(C) Farcical
(D) Rebellious

Q653.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Absurd
(A) Reasonable
(B) Foolish
(C) Nonsensical
(D) Insane

Q654.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) custom
(B) ritualistic
(C) motive
(D) conventions

Q655.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Sluggish
(A) Hassled
(B) Lethargic
(C) Leisurely
(D) Rapid

Q656.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 2.
(A) dispersed
(B) distributed
(C) accumulated
(D) withdrawn

Q657.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) obstacle
(B) proposition
(C) burden
(D) challenge

Q658.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM for the given word.
Ghastly
(A) Agitated
(B) Bitter
(C) Relaxing
(D) Pleasant

Q659.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) attributed
(B) negative
(C) similar
(D) parallel

Q660.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) reference
(B) recurrence
(C) relevance
(D) consistency

Q661.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) are made
(B) had make
(C) was make
(D) will made

Q662.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) produced
(B) invented
(C) renewed
(D) fabricated

Q663.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) powerful
(B) expensive
(C) healthier
(D) cleaner

Q664.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Vehement
(A) Reliable
(B) Smashed
(C) Passionate
(D) Mild

Q665.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Benevolent
(A) Cruel
(B) Happy
(C) Patient
(D) Harmless

Q666.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Baffle
(A) Explicate
(B) Confuse
(C) Barbarous
(D) Equalise

Q667.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Logical
(A) Subtle
(B) Random
(C) Reasonable
(D) Illogical

Q668.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Stoic
(A) Tolerant
(B) Apathetic
(C) Fervent
(D) Cooperative

Q669.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Absurd
(A) Sudden
(B) Arbitrary
(C) Irrational
(D) Abstruse

Q670.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) evolved
(B) banished
(C) uprooted
(D) collapsed

Q671.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) decline
(B) suspension
(C) diminish
(D) failure

Q672.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1
(A) exciting
(B) frustrating
(C) surprising
(D) interesting

Q673.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) basic
(B) restricted
(C) unlimited
(D) inflated

Q674.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Tedious
(A) Exciting
(B) Boring
(C) Working
(D) Happening

Q675.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) accompanies
(B) admits
(C) pleases
(D) advances

Q676.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1
(A) frustrating
(B) exciting
(C) interesting
(D) surprising

Q677.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Abandon
(A) Adopt
(B) Randomize
(C) Destroy
(D) Surrender

Q678.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Queer
(A) Doubtful
(B) Fantastic
(C) Eccentric
(D) Ordinary

Q679.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Fastidious
(A) Scrupulous
(B) Lax
(C) Late
(D) Speedy

Q680.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) applied
(B) utilised
(C) operated
(D) employed

Q681.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) observing
(B) showing
(C) blowing
(D) assuming

Q682.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) skipping
(B) grabbing
(C) building
(D) turning

Q683.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) concerns
(B) arguments
(C) problems
(D) themes

Q684.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Skeptic
(A) Believer
(B) Atheist
(C) Careful
(D) Infidel

Q685.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) broken
(B) destroyed
(C) crippled
(D) utilised

Q686.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) loss
(B) profit
(C) expenditure
(D) investment

Q687.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Titanic
(A) Deep
(B) Huge
(C) Attractive
(D) Disastrous

Q688.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Enemy
(A) Combatant
(B) Colleague
(C) Friend
(D) Attacker

Q689.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Pliable
(A) Severe
(B) Probable
(C) Malleable
(D) Rigid

Q690.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Ablaze
(A) Extinguished
(B) Burning
(C) Brazen
(D) Sharp

Q691.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Cheerful
(A) Sunny
(B) Hilarious
(C) Gloomy
(D) Joyful

Q692.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Agile
(A) Active
(B) Apathetic
(C) Energetic
(D) Sluggish

Q693.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Desire
(A) Loathing
(B) Aversion
(C) Disgust
(D) Longing

Q694.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Appalled
(A) Applied
(B) Clap
(C) Disgusted
(D) Allied

Q695.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) Mostly
(B) Additional
(C) Another
(D) Farther

Q696.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Generous
(A) Needy
(B) Mean
(C) Considerate
(D) Clever

Q697.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
MOROSE
(A) Jovial
(B) Practical
(C) Dramatic
(D) Hurried

Q698.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) sabotage
(B) conserve
(C) observe
(D) curtail

Q699.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) inform
(B) nullify
(C) communicate
(D) convey

Q700.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Hypocrisy
(A) Harm
(B) Sincerity
(C) Deceit
(D) Truth

Q701.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Bliss
(A) Consecration
(B) Pleasure
(C) Genesis
(D) Avail

Q702.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) worker’s
(B) self’s
(C) victim’s
(D) fellow’s

Q703.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Retract
(A) Disturb
(B) Please
(C) Implement
(D) Revoke

Q704.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) Interrupted
(B) Sporadic
(C) Constant
(D) Redundant

Q705.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word .
Trivial
(A) Vain
(B) Essential
(C) Liable
(D) Lavish

PASSAGE: mineral, essential and fixed oils. From plants, essential oils are thin, scented oils. Because they frequently have an odour, essential oils are (3)______ in perfumery and food flavouring. Aromatic extraction processes like cold pressing, distillation and extraction are typically used to prepare essential oils. Fatty acids are used by animals and plants to make fixed oils. They are especially non-volatile oils that are found in the seeds of cotton, corn, flax, sunflowers, peanuts, coconuts and olives, as well as in fatty animal tissues. Mineral oils are (4)_______ from petroleum which has been underground for millions of years from sea organism skeletons. Mineral oils are one of the petroleum by-products with the lowest prices. Mineral oils are colourless and transparent. They are made up of a (5)_____ of hydrocarbons. SubQuestion No : 5
Q706.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. (i).
(A) feeling
(B) dealing
(C) blinking
(D) recalling

PASSAGE: mineral, essential and fixed oils. From plants, essential oils are thin, scented oils. Because they frequently have an odour, essential oils are (3)______ in perfumery and food flavouring. Aromatic extraction processes like cold pressing, distillation and extraction are typically used to prepare essential oils. Fatty acids are used by animals and plants to make fixed oils. They are especially non-volatile oils that are found in the seeds of cotton, corn, flax, sunflowers, peanuts, coconuts and olives, as well as in fatty animal tissues. Mineral oils are (4)_______ from petroleum which has been underground for millions of years from sea organism skeletons. Mineral oils are one of the petroleum by-products with the lowest prices. Mineral oils are colourless and transparent. They are made up of a (5)_____ of hydrocarbons. SubQuestion No : 5
Q707.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) creates
(B) develops
(C) links
(D) nourishes

PASSAGE: mineral, essential and fixed oils. From plants, essential oils are thin, scented oils. Because they frequently have an odour, essential oils are (3)______ in perfumery and food flavouring. Aromatic extraction processes like cold pressing, distillation and extraction are typically used to prepare essential oils. Fatty acids are used by animals and plants to make fixed oils. They are especially non-volatile oils that are found in the seeds of cotton, corn, flax, sunflowers, peanuts, coconuts and olives, as well as in fatty animal tissues. Mineral oils are (4)_______ from petroleum which has been underground for millions of years from sea organism skeletons. Mineral oils are one of the petroleum by-products with the lowest prices. Mineral oils are colourless and transparent. They are made up of a (5)_____ of hydrocarbons. SubQuestion No : 5
Q708.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) separate
(B) distinct
(C) discrete
(D) sharp

PASSAGE: mineral, essential and fixed oils. From plants, essential oils are thin, scented oils. Because they frequently have an odour, essential oils are (3)______ in perfumery and food flavouring. Aromatic extraction processes like cold pressing, distillation and extraction are typically used to prepare essential oils. Fatty acids are used by animals and plants to make fixed oils. They are especially non-volatile oils that are found in the seeds of cotton, corn, flax, sunflowers, peanuts, coconuts and olives, as well as in fatty animal tissues. Mineral oils are (4)_______ from petroleum which has been underground for millions of years from sea organism skeletons. Mineral oils are one of the petroleum by-products with the lowest prices. Mineral oils are colourless and transparent. They are made up of a (5)_____ of hydrocarbons. SubQuestion No : 5
Q709.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) nurturing
(B) nature
(C) nurture
(D) natural

Q710.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Affirm
(A) Confirm
(B) Convey
(C) Correlate
(D) Deliver

Q711.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Noble
(A) Grand
(B) Indescribable
(C) Common
(D) Magical

Q712.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) abundance
(B) plenty
(C) fortune
(D) success

Q713.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) nature
(B) environment
(C) capture
(D) brand

Q714.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) whereas
(B) therefore
(C) as well as
(D) but

Q715.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) ignore
(B) fabricate
(C) neglect
(D) imagine

Q716.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Rectify
(A) Connect
(B) Consider
(C) Correct
(D) Count

Q717.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Timid
(A) Resolute
(B) Blunt
(C) Audacious
(D) Assertive

Q718.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) constructing
(B) pursuing
(C) chasing
(D) trailing

Q719.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Anxiety
(A) Serenity
(B) Distress
(C) Dilemma
(D) Ease

Q720.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) shall be
(B) will be
(C) can be
(D) would be

Q721.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) shall be
(B) would be
(C) can be
(D) will be

Q722.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Beautiful
(A) Pungent
(B) Stingy
(C) Slimy
(D) Ugly

Q723.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) utilised
(B) impede
(C) rejected
(D) hinder

Q724.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) average
(B) statute
(C) ordeal
(D) standard

Q725.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) worrying
(B) tiring
(C) interesting
(D) wandering

Q726.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) dissolve
(B) diffuse
(C) melt
(D) evaporate

Q727.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Cramped
(A) Filthy
(B) Spacious
(C) Tight
(D) Crammed

Q728.
Identify the most appropriate meaning of the given word.
Accept
(A) Agree
(B) Refuse
(C) Present
(D) Regret

Q729.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Erudite
(A) Humble
(B) Honest
(C) Strong
(D) Educated

Q730.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) wandering
(B) interesting
(C) tiring
(D) worrying

Q731.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) shallow
(B) grounded
(C) profound
(D) deep

Q732.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) controlled
(B) rooted
(C) drove
(D) minded

Q733.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) Numerous
(B) Countable
(C) Limited
(D) Few

Q734.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. (iii).
(A) whisked
(B) pulled
(C) called
(D) pushed

Q735.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) initial
(B) original
(C) early
(D) primary

Q736.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Lousy
(A) Praiseworthy
(B) Moral
(C) Funny
(D) Pitiful

Q737.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Permit
(A) Disgrace
(B) Flout
(C) Approve
(D) Abandon

Q738.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Powerful
(A) Strong
(B) Impotent
(C) Manly
(D) Wild

Q739.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) education
(B) literates
(C) beginners
(D) pupils

Q740.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 4.
(A) like
(B) draconian
(C) comprehensive
(D) fragile

Q741.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Perilous
(A) Dangerous
(B) Ugly
(C) Bad
(D) Adverse

Q742.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) decline
(B) rise
(C) growth
(D) stagnation

Q743.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) same as
(B) such as
(C) from as
(D) for as

Q744.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 3.
(A) wasteful
(B) declining
(C) similar
(D) feigning

Q745.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) regions
(B) section
(C) belt
(D) province

Q746.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) widely
(B) vastly
(C) largely
(D) loosely

Q747.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) crucial
(B) frantic
(C) hopeful
(D) hasty

Q748.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Venom
(A) Poison
(B) Butter
(C) Fruit juice
(D) Honey

Q749.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Terminate
(A) Mark
(B) Die
(C) Conclude
(D) Begin

Q750.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Peace
(A) Harmony
(B) Strange
(C) Turmoil
(D) Refusal

Q751.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) started
(B) start
(C) starting
(D) starts

Q752.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Innovate
(A) Solve
(B) Finance
(C) Invent
(D) Copy

Q753.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) precede
(B) focus
(C) prioritise
(D) underscore

Q754.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 5.
(A) ineffectual
(B) revengeful
(C) case
(D) example

Q755.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) buried
(B) scattered
(C) threw
(D) sowed

Q756.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Shame
(A) Disgrace
(B) Defamation
(C) Pride
(D) Fear

Q757.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) grasps
(B) occupies
(C) rents
(D) lodges

Q758.
Identify the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Lenient
(A) Strict
(B) Rude
(C) Kind
(D) Rowdy

Q759.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) credit
(B) subject
(C) luxury
(D) result

Q760.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 4.
(A) distinctly
(B) assuredly
(C) reportedly
(D) ostensibly

Q761.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Massive
(A) Tiny
(B) Tall
(C) Formidable
(D) Heavy

Q762.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) technique
(B) purpose
(C) talent
(D) weakness

Q763.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Glory
(A) Shame
(B) Honour
(C) Delight
(D) Gluttony

Q764.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) small
(B) obscure
(C) much
(D) a little

Q765.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. (v).
(A) acting
(B) shot
(C) pronounced
(D) almost

Q766.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) dazzling
(B) focussed
(C) cautious
(D) joyful

Q767.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Chaste
(A) Flashy
(B) Corrupt
(C) Sullied
(D) Pure

Q768.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) form
(B) design
(C) prepare
(D) destroy

Q769.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Lazy
(A) Barren
(B) Helpful
(C) Diligent
(D) Genuine

Q770.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Change
(A) Resolute
(B) Renew
(C) Adjust
(D) Alter

Q771.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) examines
(B) explores
(C) visits
(D) inspects

Q772.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) focussed
(B) joyful
(C) cautious
(D) dazzling

Q773.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) demanded
(B) allowed
(C) submitted
(D) asked

Q774.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) many
(B) another
(C) either
(D) second

Q775.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) enhance
(B) convince
(C) commit
(D) discover

Q776.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) so less
(B) so more
(C) many
(D) quite

Q777.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 5.
(A) foundation
(B) undermining
(C) collision
(D) erosion

Q778.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) exact
(B) nearly
(C) exactly
(D) total

Q779.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Alert
(A) Inactive
(B) Dull
(C) Smart
(D) Vigilant

Q780.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) enhance
(B) commit
(C) discover
(D) convince

Q781.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) eating
(B) churning
(C) feeding
(D) grazing

Q782.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) chased
(B) ruffled
(C) searched
(D) pursued

Q783.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) gain
(B) gains
(C) to gain
(D) gained

Q784.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) roars
(B) roared
(C) roar
(D) roaring

Q785.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. (iv).
(A) Shots
(B) Alarm
(C) Music
(D) Prayers

Q786.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Sacred
(A) Grave
(B) Narrow
(C) Holy
(D) Profane

Q787.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 4.
(A) intrusion
(B) cohesion
(C) disruption
(D) commotion

Q788.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) lurch
(B) chirp
(C) sitting
(D) perch

Q789.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) living
(B) being
(C) entity
(D) life

Q790.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Merit
(A) Result
(B) Tumult
(C) Fault
(D) Occult

Q791.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) refers
(B) pass
(C) cite
(D) entrust

Q792.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) fashion
(B) mint
(C) invent
(D) open

Q793.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 4.
(A) focusing
(B) rejecting
(C) polishing
(D) accepting

Q794.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) leapt
(B) flight
(C) dart
(D) dashed

Q795.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) have
(B) occupies
(C) had
(D) occupy

Q796.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) specie
(B) species
(C) kind
(D) type

Q797.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Attire
(A) Park
(B) Dress
(C) Theatre
(D) Hotel

Q798.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) do not
(B) cannot
(C) hasn’t
(D) can

Q799.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Fasten
(A) Loosen
(B) Bolt
(C) Undo
(D) Detach

Q800.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) bottom
(B) lowest
(C) below
(D) top

Q801.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) hoped
(B) wished
(C) planned
(D) believed

Q802.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) merely
(B) hardly
(C) purely
(D) entirely

Q803.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. (ii).
(A) arrow
(B) sceptre
(C) news
(D) ball

Q804.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Abscond
(A) Flee
(B) Avoid
(C) Annoy
(D) Stay

Q805.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) attempt
(B) announce
(C) imagine
(D) lead

Q806.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) shall have
(B) had
(C) have
(D) has

Q807.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) tell
(B) tells
(C) telling
(D) told

Q808.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 2.
(A) worry
(B) difficulty
(C) uniformity
(D) diversity

Q809.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) attempt
(B) imagine
(C) announce
(D) lead

Q810.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Calm
(A) Urban
(B) Impressed
(C) Quiet
(D) Upset

Q811.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 1.
(A) primary
(B) essential
(C) intrinsic
(D) insistent

Q812.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 1.
(A) collaborate
(B) seize
(C) cease
(D) unify

Q813.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Candid
(A) Cruel
(B) Bright
(C) Top
(D) Honest

Q814.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) forms
(B) breaks
(C) customs
(D) methods

Q815.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) whose
(B) whom
(C) by whom
(D) who

Q816.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) rich
(B) wealth
(C) debt
(D) store

Q817.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) during
(B) around
(C) from
(D) for

Q818.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) very
(B) nicely
(C) properly
(D) finally

Q819.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 3.
(A) diseases
(B) distress
(C) laments
(D) sufferings

Q820.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 5.
(A) entrance
(B) access
(C) providence
(D) accession

Q821.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) better
(B) higher
(C) lower
(D) moderate

Q822.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Alive
(A) Wise
(B) Animated
(C) Spry
(D) Dead

Q823.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) act
(B) show
(C) shape
(D) appear

Q824.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 2.
(A) joyful
(B) challenging
(C) initial
(D) wasteful

Q825.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) opens
(B) closes
(C) controls
(D) leads

Q826.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) light
(B) minute
(C) little
(D) sparse

Q827.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) limited
(B) daunted
(C) wide
(D) small

Q828.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) drop
(B) suspicion
(C) view
(D) guess

Q829.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 5.
(A) boost
(B) help
(C) damage
(D) support

Q830.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) the
(B) a
(C) an
(D) No article

Q831.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) crib
(B) cut
(C) curb
(D) crust

Q832.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) long
(B) also
(C) least
(D) too

Q833.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) bears
(B) gets
(C) suffers
(D) allows

Q834.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 3.
(A) deliver
(B) offer
(C) contribute
(D) propose

Q835.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 3.
(A) especially
(B) only
(C) easily
(D) tactfully

Q836.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 5.
(A) familiar
(B) unusual
(C) unequal
(D) strange

Q837.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) find
(B) unlearn
(C) spot
(D) locate

Q838.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) sight
(B) might
(C) light
(D) tight

Q839.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) some
(B) the
(C) that
(D) all

Q840.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) been
(B) being
(C) be
(D) is

Q841.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) the
(B) which
(C) a
(D) very

Q842.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) text
(B) guide
(C) book
(D) manual

Q843.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 2.
(A) forbid
(B) prevent
(C) restrain
(D) hamper

Q844.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) her
(B) him
(C) us
(D) them

Q845.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 1.
(A) large
(B) small
(C) lazy
(D) dumb

Q846.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) on
(B) to
(C) over
(D) upon

Q847.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) a
(B) many
(C) of
(D) about

Q848.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) year
(B) day
(C) month
(D) season

Q849.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) neither
(B) or
(C) nor
(D) never

Q850.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 1.
(A) systematic
(B) complex
(C) easy
(D) fine

Q851.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) in
(B) to
(C) for
(D) with

Q852.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) as
(B) such
(C) in
(D) for

Q853.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) in
(B) with
(C) at
(D) for

Q854.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) by
(B) from
(C) at
(D) for

Q855.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) saw
(B) seen
(C) see
(D) seeing

Q856.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) When
(B) Who
(C) What
(D) Where

Q857.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) on
(B) out
(C) of
(D) for

Q858.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 1.
(A) within
(B) among
(C) beyond
(D) between

Q859.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) the
(B) a
(C) an
(D) two

Q860.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) to
(B) on
(C) in
(D) for

Q861.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) that
(B) this
(C) these
(D) it

Q862.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) in
(B) of
(C) on
(D) at

Q863.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 2.
(A) off
(B) with
(C) of
(D) for

Q864.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) in
(B) into
(C) to
(D) for

Q865.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) to
(B) in
(C) at
(D) on

Q866.
Select the correctly spelt word.
(A) Quintessential
(B) Quintessintial
(C) Quintesential
(D) Quientessential

Q867.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Dissociation
(B) Clandestine
(C) Pronounciation
(D) Denunciation

Q868.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Condimnation
(B) Intermingled
(C) Imprisonment
(D) Conglomerate

Q869.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Comendation
(B) Reimbursement
(C) Competition
(D) Intertwined

Q870.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Connoisseur
(B) Circumlocution
(C) Haphazard
(D) Disintigrate

Q871.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Psychometric
(B) Concentrate
(C) Vindication
(D) Conglomirate

Q872.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Conscience
(B) Consciencious
(C) Conspicuous
(D) Conscious

Q873.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Magnanimos
(B) Accompanied
(C) Fascination
(D) Psychology

Q874.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Adulterous
(B) Amendment
(C) Advertisment
(D) Astounding

Q875.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Acknowledgment
(B) Apparent
(C) Fulfil
(D) Conscientous

Q876.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Physiologist
(B) Contagious
(C) Gracious
(D) Couragious

Q877.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Timorous
(B) Amalgamate
(C) Unintended
(D) Apropriate

Q878.
Select the correctly spelt word.
(A) Immediately
(B) Immedeatly
(C) Imediately
(D) Immidiately

Q879.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) marijuena
(B) stationery
(C) dictator
(D) lascivious

Q880.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Litrature
(B) Reformation
(C) Schedule
(D) Miserable

Q881.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Innoculate
(B) Irreverent
(C) Immense
(D) Immaculate

Q882.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Immigrete
(B) Combat
(C) Relevant
(D) Professional

Q883.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Category
(B) Hygiene
(C) Congratulate
(D) Aquire

Q884.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Aspirant
(B) License
(C) Autonomous
(D) Ommision

Q885.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Aquarium
(B) Mantain
(C) Accurate
(D) Excellence

Q886.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Appraisal
(B) Definate
(C) Stretch
(D) Genuine

Q887.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Encraoch
(B) Delegate
(C) Illusion
(D) Obtain

Q888.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Chief
(B) Relevant
(C) Colleague
(D) Judgment

Q889.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Scatered
(B) Brazen
(C) Crowded
(D) Imprudent

Q890.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Creator
(B) Skewed
(C) Agressive
(D) Apparent

Q891.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Foresee
(B) Rebuke
(C) Seize
(D) Dissappoint

Q892.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Dilemma
(B) Committee
(C) Warranty
(D) Neice

Q893.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Betrey
(B) Destroy
(C) Develop
(D) Demolish

Q894.
Select the correctly spelt word.
(A) Illuseon
(B) Illusion
(C) Illuzion
(D) Ilusion
