==============================================================================
FILE      : SSC_MTS_2023_EN.txt
SOURCE PDF: ssc_papers/merged/SSC_MTS_2023_EN.pdf
SUBJECT   : English Language and Comprehension
QUESTIONS : 670
==============================================================================

Q1.
The sentence given below contains some spelling errors. Select the option that has
the correct spellings.
Appliications of subjects like Physiks and chemmistry in our dayly life also have
higher visibelity than those of Biology.
(A) Applicasions of subjects like Physiks and Cemistry in our dayly life also have higher visibility than those of Biology.
(B) Appliications of subjects like Physics and chemistry in our dayly life also have higher visibelity than those of Biology.
(C) Applications of subjects like Physics and Chemistry in our daily life also have higher visibility than those of Biology.
(D) Applicacions of subjects like Physics and chemmistry in our daily life also have higher visibilety than those of Biology.

Q2.
The following sentence contains some errors. Select the option that correctly rectifies
the error.
The forses that genarate conditions conduciive to crime and riiots are stronger in
urban communities than in rurral areas.
(A) The forsec that genarate conditions conduciive to crime and riots are stronger in urban communities than in rurall areas.
(B) The forces that genereta conditions conducieve to crime and riotts are stronger in urban communities than in rural areas.
(C) The forces that generate conditions conducive to crime and riots are stronger in urban communities than in rural areas.
(D) The forces that genarete conditions conduciive to crime and riots are stronger in urban communities than in ruraal areas.

Q3.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
With cloud streaming, people can play games from a / internet-connected device,
avoiding the need for pricey / dedicated hardware such as a game console.
(A) No error
(B) dedicated hardware such as a game console
(C) With cloud streaming, people can play games from a
(D) internet-connected device, avoiding the need for pricey

Q4.
The sentence given below has spelling errors. Select the sentence without spelling
errors.
Let us appriciate, support and contribute our might to the promotional efforts of the
community in this direction.
(A) Let us appriciate, support and contribute our might to the promotional efforts of the comunity in this direction.
(B) Let us appreciate, suport and contribute our might to the promotional efforts of the community in this direction.
(C) Let us appriciate, support and contribute our might to the promotion all efforts of the community in this direction.
(D) Let us appreciate, support and contribute our might to the promotional efforts of the community in this direction.

Q5.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
As they driven through the dark, twisting lane / down which they had walked earlier,
Lucius heard / the whistling of the night air in his ears.
(A) down which they had walked earlier, Lucius heard
(B) No error
(C) the whistling of the night air in his ears.
(D) As they driven through the dark, twisting lane

Q6.
The sentence given below has spelling errors. Select the sentence without spelling
errors.
Though we read and hear a lot on green initiattive, we hardly tweak our routines to
suite the larger picture.
(A) Though we read and hear a lot on green initiatives, we hardly tweak our routines to suit the larger picture.
(B) Throug we read and hear a lot on green initiatives, we hardly tweak our routines to suite the larger picture.
(C) Though we read and hear a lot on green initiatives, we hardly tweek our routines to suite the larger picture.
(D) Though we read and hear a lot on green iniciatives, we hardly tweak our routines to suite the larger picture.

Q7.
The following sentence contains some errors. Select the option that correctly rectifies
the error.
The tiger was tranquiliized in the morning and keept in a cage to avoid disturbannces
by human beings.
(A) The tiger was tranquilized in the morning and kept in a cage to avoiid disturbaences by human beings.
(B) The tiger was tranquilized in the morning and kept in a cage to avoid disturbances by human beings.
(C) The tiger was traanquilized in the morning and kept in a cage to avoid dissturbances by human beings.
(D) The tiger was tranquiliized in the morning and keept in a cage to avoid disturbances by human beings.

Q8.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
When I was in high school / I participated in several extracurricular activities / such as
the debate team and the school newspaper / which help me developed my
communication and writing skills.
(A) When I was in high school
(B) which help me developed my communication and writing skills
(C) such as the debate team and the school newspaper
(D) I participated in several extracurricular activities

Q9.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Throughout my career as a journalist, / I covered many important stories and /
interviewed numerous individuals, which allow me / to share important information
and insights with my readers.
(A) to share important information and insights with my readers
(B) I covered many important stories and
(C) Throughout my career as a journalist
(D) interviewed numerous individuals, which allow me

Q10.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
The fight of the cobra and the mongoose / is a classic drama often seen in India, / and
the outcome was largely the same.
(A) The fight of the cobra and the mongoose
(B) No error
(C) is a classic drama often seen in India
(D) and the outcome was largely the same

Q11.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No improvement required’.
A wonder in the plant kingdom, the Great Banyan Tree of the AJC Bose Botanical
Garden at Shibpur in Howrah, occupies a unique position in the world records.
(A) occupying a unique position in
(B) occupies an unique position in
(C) No improvement required
(D) being occupied a unique position of

Q12.
The sentence given below contains some spelling errors. Select the option that has
the correct spellings.
Memberrs of the asocciation have succesfully climbed several paeks of the Himalayan
range.
(A) Members of the associattion have succesfully climbed several paeks of the Himalayan range.
(B) Meembers of the associatiion have successfuly climbed several peaks of the Himalayan range.
(C) Members of the associasion have succesfully climbed several paiks of the Himalayan range.
(D) Members of the association have successfully climbed several peaks of the Himalayan range.

Q13.
The sentence given below has spelling errors. Select the sentence without spelling
errors.
Knowledge and awareness about my own self has to preceede my knowledge of
things other than me.
(A) Knowledge and awareness about my own self has to preceede my knowledge of things other then me.
(B) Knowledge and awareness about my own self has to precede my knowledge of things other than me.
(C) Knowlegde and awareness about my own self has to preceede my knowlegde of things other than me.
(D) Knowledge and awarenes about my own self has to preceede my knowledge of things other than me.

Q14.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
The pandemic has challenged education systems to ensure learning continuity,
substantially increasing the demands placed on teachers.
(A) education systems to ensuring learning
(B) education systems for ensure learning
(C) education systems in ensure learning
(D) No substitution required

Q15.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Despite the setbacks and obstacles we faced, / our team rallied together and achieved
our goals, / which teach us the importance of / teamwork, resilience, and
determination.
(A) Despite the setbacks and obstacles we faced
(B) teamwork, resilience, and determination
(C) which teach us the importance of
(D) our team rallied together and achieved our goals

Q16.
Four words of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options.
Select the option that contains a spelling error.
Ozone is a reactiev gas that is not only important in protecting us from harmful
ultraviolet radiation but is also a greenhouse gas and, at high smog-level
concentrations, harmful to human health and vegetation.
(A) reactiev
(B) radiation
(C) concentrations
(D) vegetation

Q17.
The sentence given below has spelling errors. Select the sentence without spelling
errors.
We can also contribute to presarvation of water bodies by not dumping our garbage in
them.
(A) We can also contribute to presarvation of water bodies by not dumpeing our garbage in them.
(B) We can also contribute to preservation of water bodies by not dumping our garbage in them.
(C) We can also contribut to presarvation of water bodies by not dumping our garbage in them.
(D) We can also contribute to presarvation of water bodies by not dumping our garbag in them.

Q18.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
My manager forced me to resign from my job as a chef since I underwent a spine
surgery. I was depressed and had lost all hope. Later my father motivated me to open
my own café and showed me ways to be independent. After all it is true that one
should not ____________.
(A) grease the palm
(B) blow one’s own trumpet
(C) cry over spilt milk
(D) blow hot and cold

Q19.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error and select the option which rectifies that error.
AI fiction is a constantly / evolving genre that gives us an peek / into the potential
upsides and downsides / of intelligent machines.
(A) AI fiction is an constantly
(B) into a potential upside and downside
(C) evolving genre that gives us a peek
(D) of intelligent machine.

Q20.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No improvement required’.
Newton, after seeing the apple falling from a tree, began to wonder whether if it moved
towards the earth and not upwards towards the sky.
(A) No improvement required
(B) began to wondering if
(C) began his wondering how
(D) began to wonder why

Q21.
Four words of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options.
Select the option that contains a spelling error.
All life depends on a healthy planet, but the interwoven systems of atmosphere,
oceans, watercourses, land, ice cover and biosphere, which form the natural
environment, are threatned by human activities.
(A) interwoven
(B) threatned
(C) biosphere
(D) watercourses

Q22.
Select the sentence that has NO spelling errors.
(A) The teacher was impressed with the student’s insightfull analysis of the novel, which demonstrated a deep understanding of the complex theames and motifs.
(B) The teacher was impressed with the student’s insightful analysis of the novel, which demonstrated a deep understanding of the complex themes and motifs.
(C) The teacher was imprresed with the student’s insightul analysis of the novel, which demonstrated a deep understanding of the complex themes and motifes.
(D) The teacher was impresed with the student’s insightful analysis of the novel, which demonstreted a deep understanding of the complex themes and motifs.

Q23.
Select the sentence that has NO spelling errors.
(A) The elderly woman was delighted to receive a bouquet of fragrant flowers from her thoughtful grandson, who had come to visit her at the nursing home
(B) The elderly woman was delighted to receive a bouque of fragrant flowers from her thoughtfull grandson, who had come to visit her at the nursing home
(C) The elderly woman was deligted to receive a bouque of fregrant flowers from her thoughtful grandson, who had come to visit her at the nursing home
(D) The elderly woman was delighed to recive a bouquet of fragrant flowers from her thoughtfull grandson, who had come to visit her at the nursing home

Q24.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The development of skills can contribute to structural transformation and economic
growth in enhance employability and labour productivity and helping countries to
become more competitive.
(A) about enhancing employability
(B) by enhanced employability
(C) by enhancing employability
(D) for enhanced employability

Q25.
Four words of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options.
Select the option that contains a spelling error.
Ongoing climate change, caused by the acumulation of greenhouse gases in the
atmosphere, is happening on a timescale of decades to centuries and is driving
environmental changes worldwide.
(A) environmental
(B) atmosphere
(C) acumulation
(D) decades

Q26.
Four words of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options.
Select the option that contains a spelling error.
Human activities that release longlived greenhouse gases into the atmosphere also
leed to the enhancement of concentrations of shorterlived ozone and particulate
matter in the atmosphere.
(A) concentrations
(B) particulate
(C) release
(D) leed

Q27.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No improvement required’.
Very early in the morning, at the beginning of January, Opu was lying in bed waiting
for the sun having rose.
(A) waited for the sun rising
(B) waited for the sun having rose
(C) No improvement required
(D) waiting for the sun to rise

Q28.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In case
no improvement is needed, select 'No improvement required'.
The new chairman of the company announced attracted bonus for the employees on
the occasion of the new year.
(A) No improvement required
(B) announced an attractive bonus for the employees
(C) announcing attracted bonus for the employees
(D) announced attracting bonus for the employees

Q29.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error and select the option which rectifies that error.
A lot of adulterants / are chemicals that can lead / to an range of health problems / in
both children and adults.
(A) to a range of health problems
(B) are chemical that can lead
(C) A lot of adulterant
(D) in both children and adult.

Q30.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No improvement required’.
It is true that learning English is essential for professionals to survived the national
and international competitions.
(A) to be survive
(B) having to survive
(C) No improvement required
(D) for surviving

Q31.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
Larger emissions of greenhouse gases lead to higher concentrations in the
atmosphere.
(A) leaded to higher concentrations
(B) have lead to higher concentrations
(C) is lead to higher concentrations
(D) No substitution required

Q32.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
Tim joined the family business as he failed in his final degree examination. Seeing the
growth of the family business now, it seems like Tim’s earlier failure was a blessing in
disguise.
(A) A difficult time
(B) A mistake
(C) Something good that isn't recognised at first
(D) A good decision

Q33.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error and select the option which rectifies that error.
The SNAP-10 A / was launched on 3 April 1965 / on a Atlas-Agena D rocket / from
Vandenberg Air Force Base.
(A) at Vandenberg Air Force Base.
(B) A SNAP-10 A
(C) was launch on 3 April 1965
(D) on an Atlas-Agena D rocket

Q34.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In case
no improvement is needed, select 'No improvement required'.
With all their little comforts destroyed, the survivors were thrown still farther back into
barbarism.
(A) still further back for barbarism
(B) still further back into barbarism
(C) No improvement required
(D) still a little farther into barbarism

Q35.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
The viable of life / depends on a pair / of conflicting realities.
(A) depends on a pair
(B) No error
(C) The viable of life
(D) of conflicting realities

Q36.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
After I complete my training program / I will have been joining a team of astronauts /
and preparing to / embark on a mission to Mars.
(A) I will have been joining a team of astronauts
(B) embark on a mission to Mars
(C) and preparing to
(D) After I complete my training program

Q37.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
By the time I turn thirty / I would had visited every / continent in the world and have
gained / a wealth of knowledge and experience.
(A) By the time I turn thirty
(B) a wealth of knowledge and experience
(C) I would had visited every
(D) continent in the world and have gained

Q38.
The given sentence contains an error. Select the option that correctly rectifies the
error.
That career competition was the difficultest exam he had ever given.
(A) That career competition was the difficultest exam than any he had ever given.
(B) That career competition was the most difficult exam than any he had ever given.
(C) That career competition was the most difficultest exam he had ever given.
(D) That career competition was the most difficult exam he had ever given.

Q39.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error and select the option which rectifies that error.
The space agency wanted / to test with a chimp / before orbiting a astronaut / in a
Mercury capsule.
(A) The space agency want
(B) in an Mercury capsule.
(C) before orbiting an astronaut
(D) to test with an chimp

Q40.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Existentialism has a reputation for being angst-ridden and gloomy mostly because of
its emphasis on pondering the meaningless of existence.
(A) on pondering the meaningless of existence
(B) mostly because of its emphasis
(C) Existentialism has a reputation
(D) for being angst-ridden and gloomy

Q41.
Select the sentence that has NO spelling errors.
(A) My new phone has a high-resolusion screen and powerful proccessor, which makes it perfect for streming videos and playing games.
(B) My new phone has a high-resollution screen and a powerfull procesor, which makes it perfect for streaming videos and playing games.
(C) My new phone has a high-resolution screen and a powerful processor, which makes it perfect for streaming videos and playing games.
(D) My new phone has a high-resolution screan and powerfull procesor, which makes it perfect for streming videos and playing games.

Q42.
Select the most appropriate response in the given situation of the eve of a battle to fill
in the blank.
The commander: “Honourable Emperor, all the troops have lined up for the battle and
are awaiting your orders.” Emperor Chandragupta Maurya:
(A) We will march at dawn.
(B) You should learn how to talk to an emperor.
(C) We will be playing cards.
(D) We are ready for the pilgrimage.

Q43.
The given sentence contains an error. Select the option that correctly rectifies the
error.
This is the eldest standing structure of Chola architecture in India.
(A) This is the more older standing structure of Chola architecture in India.
(B) This is the most old standing structure of Chola architecture in India.
(C) This is the more elder standing structure of Chola architecture in India.
(D) This is the oldest standing structure of Chola architecture in India.

Q44.
The given sentence contains an error. Select the option that correctly rectifies the
error.
The boy told his mother that he saw the most tall giraffe at the zoo.
(A) The boy told his mother that he saw the tallest giraffe at the zoo.
(B) The boy told his mother that he saw the most taller giraffe at the zoo.
(C) The boy told his mother that he saw the most tallest giraffe at the zoo.
(D) The boy told his mother that he saw the more taller giraffe at the zoo.

Q45.
The given sentence contains an error. Select the option that correctly rectifies the
error.
Earlier, he was feeling better, but things took a turn for the bad.
(A) Earlier, he was feeling better, but things took a turn for the worst.
(B) Earlier, he was feeling good, but things took a turn for the bad.
(C) Earlier, he was feeling well, but things took a turn for the ill.
(D) Earlier, he was feeling better, but things took a turn for the ill.

Q46.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains a misspelt word.
The single most important factor that distinguishes those of us who succed in any
venture and those of us who don’t is this ‘instant coffee’ attitude.
(A) venture
(B) attitude
(C) distinguishes
(D) succed

Q47.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
A night alone / in a hotel / can be lonely prospect.
(A) can be lonely prospect
(B) A night alone
(C) No error
(D) in a hotel

Q48.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
Why don’t / you throw this / paper on the dust bin?
(A) paper on the dust bin
(B) No error
(C) you throw this
(D) Why don’t

Q49.
Parts of the given sentence have been underlined. One of them contains an error. The
underlined parts are given as options with some changes. Select the option that
correctly rectifies the error.
The new restaurant on Main Street is cheap than the old one.
(A) the older one
(B) in Main Street
(C) newer restaurant
(D) is cheaper than

Q50.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In case
no improvement is needed, select 'No improvement required'.
Jack being the wiser and bolder among the two of us, took the lead, carrying the axe
on his shoulder.
(A) bolder between
(B) boldest among
(C) No improvement required
(D) boldest between

Q51.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a spelling error.
Several days later, / he received a written / comeunication from the magistrate / that
the case has been dropped.
(A) Several days later
(B) he received a written
(C) comeunication from the magistrate
(D) that the case has been dropped

Q52.
Select the most appropriate option that can rectify the underlined segment in the given
sentence. If there is no need to rectify it, select ‘no rectification needed’.
This film is a non-stop riot that many cite as one of the funny films of all time.
(A) no rectification needed
(B) funniest
(C) more funny
(D) funnier

Q53.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The Delhi administration is seriously worried about the warning to civic health posed
by the polluted waters of Yamuna.
(A) a peril to civic health
(B) the notice to civic health
(C) the plague to civic health
(D) the threat to civic health

Q54.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains a misspelt word.
For every endeavour-whether in the area of career, academics, music, sports or even
in spirituality, it is a long ardous journey.
(A) ardous
(B) endeavour
(C) academics
(D) career

Q55.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The rise in temperature is playing havoc with India’s rainfall which is pertinent for
India’s agriculture sector.
(A) rainfall who is pertinent
(B) rainfall which is significant
(C) rainfall which is decant
(D) rainfall which was mendicant

Q56.
The given sentence contains an error. Select the option that correctly rectifies the
error.
He is the better-looking hero in the entire film industry.
(A) He is the best-looking hero in the entire film industry.
(B) He is the good-looking hero than the entire film industry.
(C) He is the best-looking hero more than the entire film industry.
(D) He is the good-looking hero in the entire film industry.

Q57.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
No sooner had the sun risen over the horizon when the birds began to chirp and the
squirrels started to scamper around the park.
(A) when the birds begin
(B) than birds begin
(C) when birds began
(D) than the birds began

Q58.
Parts of the given sentence have been underlined. One of them contains an error. The
underlined parts are given as options with some changes. Select the option that
correctly rectifies the error.
This car is lesser expensive than the one I had come to buy.
(A) for
(B) came
(C) ones
(D) less

Q59.
Select the sentence that has NO spelling errors.
(A) The doctor presribed some medicine to alleviate my parsistent cough, which has been boathering me for days.
(B) The doctor precribed some medicine to aleviate my persistent cough, which has been bothering me for days.
(C) The doctor prescribed some medicine to aleviate my parsistent cough, which has been boathering me for days.
(D) The doctor prescribed some medicine to alleviate my persistent cough, which has been bothering me for days.

Q60.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains an error.
For an all-too-brief period between the late 1980s and the late 2000s, a world was
characterised by convergence.
(A) between the late
(B) For an all-too-brief
(C) characterised by
(D) a world was

Q61.
Parts of the given sentence have been underlined. One of them contains an error. The
underlined parts are given as options with some changes. Select the option that
correctly rectifies the error.
He is good at playing the guitar than his brother.
(A) is better
(B) in playing
(C) guitar
(D) to

Q62.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains an error.
We think of the past history of the world as fixed but of the future as undecided and
open to a wealth off possibilities.
(A) of the past
(B) as undecided
(C) as fixed
(D) wealth off

Q63.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains a misspelt word.
A piano teacher described an interesting encountar she had with a young lady who
came to inquire about music lessons.
(A) interesting
(B) inquire
(C) piano
(D) encountar

Q64.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined segment in the given sentence.
After her husband passed away, Jane had to learn to bite the bullet and take care of
the household on her own.
(A) Create a difficult situation
(B) Accept a difficult situation bravely
(C) Criticise someone harshly
(D) Run away from a difficult situation

Q65.
Select the most appropriate segment that can substitute the bracketed word in the
following sentence.
The bridge that (connecting) the two valleys across the Brahmaputra river has recently
been constructed in Arunachal Pradesh.
(A) will be connecting
(B) had connected
(C) will be connected
(D) connects

Q66.
Identify the sentence that contains correct spellings in the given context.
(A) She acid the test despite being sleep-deprived from studying for nearly 24 hours straight.
(B) She acad the test desspite being sleep-deprived from studying for nearly 24 hours straight.
(C) She aced the test daspite being sleep-deprived from studying for nearly 24 hours strait.
(D) She aced the test despite being sleep-deprived from studying for nearly 24 hours straight.

Q67.
Select the most appropriate option that can rectify the underlined segment in the given
sentence. If there is no need to rectify it, select ‘no rectification needed’.
His claim to be the smartly kid in the school was a bit hyperbole!
(A) no rectification needed
(B) smartest
(C) smarter
(D) smart

Q68.
Parts of the given sentence have been underlined. One of them contains an error. The
underlined parts are given as options with some changes. Select the option that
correctly rectifies the error.
The weather is cold tonight than it was yesterday.
(A) its
(B) are
(C) were
(D) colder

Q69.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Rahul’s sister says that my brother is the best dancer in the city.
(A) her brother is the best dancer in the city
(B) my brother was the best dancer in the city
(C) her brother was the best dancer in the city
(D) his brother was the best dancer in the city

Q70.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
When Rajesh was going to college, he meet with an accident.
(A) has met
(B) meets
(C) met
(D) No substitution required

Q71.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
If I will get good marks, my father will buy me a laptop.
(A) No substitution required
(B) am getting
(C) gets
(D) get

Q72.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
A soothe voice must convey both confidence and intimacy, qualities which can be
attributed to a few key components.
(A) few key components
(B) A soothe voice
(C) convey both confidence
(D) which can be

Q73.
Parts of the given sentence have been underlined. One of them contains an error. The
underlined parts are given as options with some changes. Select the option that
correctly rectifies the error.
Sohan is the older brother of my best friend.
(A) to my
(B) an
(C) elder
(D) good

Q74.
The given sentence contains an error. Select the option that correctly rectifies the
error.
He was carefullest while stealing the crown jewels.
(A) He was more careful while stealing the crown jewels.
(B) He was most carefuller while stealing the crown jewels.
(C) He was carefuller while stealing the crown jewels.
(D) He was most careful while stealing the crown jewels.

Q75.
Select the most appropriate option that can rectify the underlined segment in the given
sentence. If there is no need to rectify it, select ‘no rectification needed’.
The conductor said that it was the worse quake he ever knew.
(A) more bad
(B) bad
(C) no rectification needed
(D) worst

Q76.
Select the most appropriate idiom from the given options to fill in the blank.
Greta Thunberg _____________ when she dared to question about accountability with
respect to global warming and climate change.
(A) sowed wild oats
(B) kept the pot boiling
(C) gave the devil his due
(D) hit the nail on the head

Q77.
Select the most appropriate option that can rectify the underlined segment in the given
sentence. If there is no need to rectify it, select ‘no rectification needed’.
I used a variety of sources to find the more cheap flight.
(A) no rectification needed
(B) cheaper
(C) cheapest
(D) cheap

Q78.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word in the following sentence
to fill in the blank.
The medical procedure was successful, but the patient experienced some minor
________(troubles) during recovery.
(A) applications
(B) complications
(C) transformations
(D) obligations

Q79.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word in the following sentence
to fill in the blank.
The novel’s intricate plot and rich character development kept readers
________(committed) from the beginning to the end.
(A) engaged
(B) secluded
(C) detached
(D) dismantled

Q80.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution required’.
Many great people born in that small village.
(A) was born
(B) No substitution required
(C) is born
(D) were born

Q81.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Mohan unknowingly altered salt instead of sugar to the dessert making it taste terrible.
(A) added salt instead of sugar
(B) anguished salt instead of sugar
(C) amplified salt instead of sugar
(D) abridged salt instead of sugar

Q82.
Select the most appropriate option that can rectify the underlined segment in the given
sentence. If there is no need to rectify it, select ‘no rectification needed’.
You are the beautiful woman I have ever seen.
(A) no rectification needed
(B) more beautiful
(C) beauty
(D) most beautiful

Q83.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a spelling error.
The conferrence / attempts to / trace the processes and / consequences of climate
change.
(A) consequences of climate change
(B) The conferrence
(C) attempts to
(D) trace the processes and

Q84.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word in the following sentence
to fill in the blank.
The athlete’s perseverance and mental toughness ________(facilitate) her to overcome
adversity and achieve her goals.
(A) restricted
(B) enabled
(C) limited
(D) hindered

Q85.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
No sooner did he finished his examination than he left for his cricket training centre.
(A) no sooner did he finish
(B) no sooner than he finished
(C) no sooner than he did finished
(D) no sooner had he finish

Q86.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The airplane flowed over the mountains, offering the passengers a breath-taking view
of the majestic peaks below.
(A) flew beyond
(B) flew over
(C) flowed above
(D) flowed beyond

Q87.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined
segment in the following sentence.
Hundreds of people were removed from a place by the government recently due to a
war-like situation.
(A) assassinated
(B) evacuated
(C) invaded
(D) terminated

Q88.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
After having invested so much time and energy into the project, we are now back to
square one.
(A) Not ready for the consequence
(B) In the same city
(C) Fighting with each other
(D) Having to start all over again

Q89.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Rishi asked Karan will he get a new football for him?
(A) would he get a new football for him?
(B) if he would get a new football for him.
(C) if would he get a new football for him?
(D) if he will get a new football for him?

Q90.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the following sentence and select its correct
spelling from the given options.
The colours of the rainbow seemed to shine through the trianguler prism as the sun
hit the object.
(A) rainbouw
(B) son
(C) triangular
(D) objact

Q91.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
It is commonly believed / that Democracy is / the best form / of the government.
(A) of the government
(B) It is commonly believed
(C) that Democracy is
(D) the best form

Q92.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains a misspelt word.
Obesity is rapidly becoming the leading cause of prevantable deaths in the United
States.
(A) rapidly
(B) leading
(C) obesity
(D) prevantable

Q93.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
Manisha saw an old elephant / in the wildlife reserve / while she was / on safari tour.
(A) on safari tour
(B) Manisha saw an old elephant
(C) while she was
(D) in the wildlife reserve

Q94.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the given sentence.
A man of character, he stuck to his guns even in the most difficult situations.
(A) To do things that would please people
(B) To behave disrespectfully
(C) To find a treasure
(D) To stand firm against all difficulties and challenges

Q95.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
My daughter was / invited to lunch / hosted by the Governor / at his residence.
(A) at his residence
(B) invited to lunch
(C) hosted by the Governor
(D) My daughter was

Q96.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word in the following sentence
to fill in the blank.
The sun was setting over the mountains, painting the sky with ________(energetic)
shades of orange and pink.
(A) vibrant
(B) reactive
(C) faded
(D) bright

Q97.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
Riddhi believes in wearing her heart on her sleeve. That is why she has so many
friends.
(A) To criticise everybody
(B) To wear a badge of honour
(C) To openly and freely express one’s emotions
(D) To talk aloud

Q98.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Early childhood experiences have a _________ impact on brain development affecting
learning, health, behaviour, and, ultimately, productivity and income.
(A) perfect
(B) profound
(C) basic
(D) superficial

Q99.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
Irrespective of the chaos in the classroom, our class teacher stays cool as a
cucumber.
(A) Stays calm and composed
(B) Behaves like a vegetable
(C) Scolds all the students in the classroom
(D) Develops a fever

Q100.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word given in brackets to fill in the
blank.
The student provided her English teacher a short and _________(incoherent) account
of her journey to Shimla with her parents.
(A) humble
(B) lucid
(C) rough
(D) genuine

Q101.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Henry is known / as an excellent writer / and good communicator / in English.
(A) as an excellent writer
(B) in English
(C) Henry is known
(D) and good communicator

Q102.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The cats food bowl was empty, so he meowed incessantly until his owner finally filled
it with fresh kibble.
(A) The cats’
(B) A cat’s
(C) A cats’
(D) The cat’s

Q103.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the
following sentence.
They serve stuffed garlic bread and molten chocolate in the birthday party of their son,
Parth, last week.
(A) served
(B) serves
(C) are serving
(D) be served

Q104.
Select the most appropriate idiom from the given options to fill in the blank.
Being a journalist, your first duty is to ____________ or else your colleagues might
surpass you.
(A) eat a humble pie
(B) have an axe to grind
(C) build castles in the air
(D) keep your ear to the ground

Q105.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
My father told me / that in his childhood / he was walking / to school every day.
(A) he was walking
(B) that in his childhood
(C) My father told me
(D) to school every day

Q106.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word in the following sentence
to fill in the blank.
The athlete’s injury was a ________(defeat) for the team’s chances of winning the
championship.
(A) progression
(B) breakthrough
(C) stress
(D) setback

Q107.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Guard over / making mistakes / by carefully checking / the assigned task.
(A) Guard over
(B) by carefully checking
(C) the assigned task
(D) making mistakes

Q108.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Virtual worlds are recently new phenomena in that they _________ people to meet and
socially interact with others in a variety of online environments.
(A) forbid
(B) bring
(C) choose
(D) enable

Q109.
Select the most appropriate idiom from the given options to fill in the blank.
We broke the traffic rules unknowingly while coming back from the party, now we have
to ________ sooner or later.
(A) face the music
(B) look sharp
(C) cry for the moon
(D) bid defiance

Q110.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
“Do not turn a blind eye to all the mischief your child is up to”, the teacher told the
young parent.
(A) Close the door
(B) Take pride in
(C) Give rewards
(D) Pretend not to notice

Q111.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The manager asked me if I have completed my projects.
(A) if he has completed my projects
(B) if I has completed my projects
(C) if I had completed my projects
(D) if I shall have completed my projects

Q112.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
If he had paid / attention to the announcement, / he had not / missed the train.
(A) If he had paid
(B) he had not
(C) attention to the announcement
(D) missed the train

Q113.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
To preparing the vine for plant, it should be cut back to 2 ft.
(A) prepares in vine in plant
(B) prepare a vine in planting
(C) prepared the vine of plant
(D) prepare the vine for planting

Q114.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The scratches on her hands were clear signs of domestic violence, ______ and said
that she got scratched by barbed wire fencing.
(A) and poverty
(B) yet she lied
(C) which was enough evidence
(D) done a while ago

Q115.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
The team played / really well, but / they lose the game / in the final minutes.
(A) really well, but
(B) in the final minutes
(C) they lose the game
(D) The team played

Q116.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Peer pressure is bound to effect most of us both positively and negatively.
(A) to invoke most of us
(B) to affect most of us
(C) to impede most of us
(D) to prompt most of us

Q117.
Select the option that rectifies the spelling of the underlined word in the given
sentence.
The company sent out a questionaire to its employees to gather feedback on their
work environment.
(A) questioneire
(B) questionnaire
(C) questionnire
(D) questionaiare

Q118.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word given in brackets to fill in the
blank.
Uncle Joe is ___________________(reputable) for spending 10 years of his youth in
prison due to armed robbery.
(A) mournful
(B) anxious
(C) well-known
(D) notorious

Q119.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
They decided to / travel in train / instead of driving / to New Delhi.
(A) They decided to
(B) travel in train
(C) to New Delhi
(D) instead of driving

Q120.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Pandemics have often been caused by a disease that spreads by physical touch or
contact.
(A) are contagious
(B) are vigorous
(C) are robust
(D) are fastidious

Q121.
Select the option that correctly rectifies the underlined spelling error in the given
sentence.
Little children are afraid to go to school because of the agrassive seniors who tend to
bully them.
(A) Aggresive
(B) Aggressive
(C) Agrresive
(D) Agrressive

Q122.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains an error.
They had two bedrooms among them, one for the girls and one for the boys.
(A) girls and one
(B) them, one for
(C) bedrooms among
(D) had two

Q123.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Teenage is that phase of life when you are proposed to the world outside.
(A) you are exposed to
(B) you are excited with
(C) one are proposed to
(D) you are interrupted to

Q124.
Select the most appropriate segment that can substitute the underlined word in the
following sentence.
Iraq was governed by autocracy when Saddam Hussain was the President.
(A) one man with absolute power
(B) the King and his heir
(C) the wealthy class
(D) the common people

Q125.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The intrepid group of adventurers climbed the mountain despite of bad weather and
road closures.
(A) despite
(B) in spite
(C) in view of
(D) due to

Q126.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Professor said that I will be late for the lecture.
(A) he shall be late for the lecture
(B) he is late for the lecture
(C) he would be late for the lecture
(D) he may be late for the lecture

Q127.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
They had been dancing / for an hour / when our dance teacher / had arrived.
(A) when our dance teacher
(B) They had been dancing
(C) for an hour
(D) had arrived

Q128.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The executives were running around in circles, without any success.
(A) Achieving maximum mileage
(B) Suffering huge profits and losses
(C) Successfully accomplishing the target
(D) Putting efforts into something that does not give a worthwhile result

Q129.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
I want to / give you / an information about / the missing necklace.
(A) an information about
(B) the missing necklace
(C) give you
(D) I want to

Q130.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
She performed / the dance routine / perfect, / impressing everyone.
(A) She performed
(B) perfect
(C) impressing everyone
(D) the dance routine

Q131.
The following sentence has been divided into four parts. Identify the part that contains
an error.
(A) The mother exclaimed / (B) when she saw her son / (C) stumble on the race track, /
(D) “Look, he fells!”
(A) B
(B) D
(C) C
(D) A

Q132.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
She was writing / a letter to her grandmother / when the power / gone out.
(A) gone out
(B) a letter to her grandmother
(C) She was writing
(D) when the power

Q133.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word given in brackets to fill in the
blank.
The doctor said that the patient named Rumi is in the ____________________(initial)
stage of lung cancer.
(A) terminal
(B) innermost
(C) early
(D) outermost

Q134.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the bracketed word in the following sentence
to fill in the blank.
She’s reading a ________(secrecy) novel and can’t wait to find out who the killer is.
(A) crisis
(B) complication
(C) difficulty
(D) mystery

Q135.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined
segment in the following sentence.
Raymond has opted the study of religion as his major subject in graduation.
(A) Psephology
(B) Philology
(C) Theology
(D) Psychology

Q136.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
He apologised in her silently before he pushed deeper into her thoughts.
(A) apologise in her
(B) apologised with her
(C) apologised of her
(D) apologised to her

Q137.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
Sometimes we have to accept replacing something with something else, if we want to
move forward.
(A) evaluation
(B) change
(C) invasion
(D) invention

Q138.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
following sentence.
Selling, purchasing, and using an illegally copied product is a criminal offence.
(A) an obsolete
(B) a pirated
(C) an outlawed
(D) a crooked

Q139.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
My younger daughter, / Kanu prefer / dark chocolate / to yoghurt.
(A) dark chocolate
(B) My younger daughter
(C) Kanu prefer
(D) to yoghurt

Q140.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the following sentence and select its correct
spelling from the given options.
He has neither the policies nor the persanol charisma to inspire people.
(A) cherisma
(B) polecies
(C) personal
(D) niether

Q141.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
They allowed us to powder by crushing the spices, pick over the raisins and lick the
stirring spoons.
(A) gain
(B) greet
(C) guess
(D) grind

Q142.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Winning the championship was a dream come true for the team, but being awarded the
MVP trophy was ______________.
(A) the silver lining
(B) the bird in the bush
(C) a cold turkey
(D) the icing on the cake

Q143.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
It has raining very hard and he has a very large umbrella to keep off the rain-drops.
(A) shall rain
(B) is raining
(C) will be rainy
(D) rained

Q144.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The Indian team had its back against the wall, but managed to fight back.
(A) In extreme joy or exhilaration
(B) Stuck in a difficult circumstance with no escape
(C) Forced to indulge in propaganda
(D) Throwing the opposition off guard

Q145.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
The new software / consists from / several features / and tools.
(A) consists from
(B) several features
(C) and tools
(D) The new software

Q146.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
In America, / most of the people / can speak / the English well.
(A) the English well
(B) most of the people
(C) can speak
(D) In America

Q147.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The hiring manager has already offered you the job; now, ________________ to accept
or decline the offer.
(A) a penny for your thoughts
(B) the ball is in your court
(C) pull your leg
(D) get your act together

Q148.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
She was known for her __________ attention to detail, always making sure everything
was perfectly organised and in its proper place.
(A) fastidious
(B) scornful
(C) tedious
(D) exact

Q149.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains an error.
To much seriousness hardens the world, pinning it down with rules.
(A) with rules
(B) hardens the
(C) to much
(D) world, pinning

Q150.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
All these things happen/ because she do not / pay heed to my words.
(A) pay heed to my words
(B) All these things happen
(C) No error
(D) because she do not

Q151.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
She is very good / in playing / the guitar / and singing songs.
(A) in playing
(B) and singing songs
(C) the guitar
(D) She is very good

Q152.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word given in brackets to fill in the
blank.
The company is looking for some ______________(idle) workers who can join the
organisation immediately.
(A) diligent
(B) coy
(C) callous
(D) sober

Q153.
Select the option that rectifies the spelling of the underlined word in the given
sentence.
They complained that their manager was incompietent and knew nothing about the
project.
(A) incompitent
(B) incompeteant
(C) incomepetent
(D) incompetent

Q154.
Select the option that rectifies the spelling of the underlined word in the given
sentence.
The tour company has included all the activities that you have requested in your
itenarary.
(A) itinerarey
(B) itenerarey
(C) itinerary
(D) itenerary

Q155.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
This scripture / has been /translated in / seventy languages.
(A) seventy languages
(B) This scripture
(C) has been
(D) translated in

Q156.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
If I hand her a flower and say, “Give it to mamma,” she take it to her mother.
(A) was taking it
(B) takes it
(C) had took it
(D) had taken it

Q157.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
I found my teacher’s points casual and informal in the group discussion.
(A) flesh and blood
(B) free and easy
(C) foot the bill
(D) fair and square

Q158.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Mohan is respected / by everyone / because he works / hardly.
(A) by everyone
(B) because he works
(C) hardly
(D) Mohan is respected

Q159.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
He was quaking in his boots when he had to give a speech on the stage.
(A) To tremble in excitement
(B) To shake in happiness
(C) To tremble with fear
(D) To shake in excitement

Q160.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
COVID-19 _________ structural weaknesses in health systems worldwide and
negatively impacted individuals, societies, and economies.
(A) concealed
(B) laid
(C) hit
(D) revealed

Q161.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
The school shall reopened / after summer / vacations of / one month.
(A) one month
(B) vacations of
(C) The school shall reopened
(D) after summer

Q162.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
They said that he is not going to call them.
(A) he shall not call them
(B) he has not gone to call then
(C) they are not going to call them
(D) he was not going to call them

Q163.
Identify and correct the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
Sliding each bead from one side to the other, the student used the abacus to count out
the nember of days in a week.
(A) beed
(B) number
(C) Slaiding
(D) abacuss

Q164.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
Harish told me / in the morning / that Gaurav will / come tomorrow.
(A) come tomorrow
(B) Harish told me
(C) that Gaurav will
(D) in the morning

Q165.
Select the option that rectifies the spelling of the underlined word in the given
sentence.
One of her colleagues had agreed to act as the arbitratore in finalising the contract.
(A) arbitetrator
(B) arbitor
(C) arbitraitor
(D) arbitrator

Q166.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Radha will have learnt cooking by the time she will have married.
(A) learnt cooking
(B) by the time
(C) she will have married
(D) Radha will have

Q167.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
They are sell their company’s products to people.
(A) are sell the company
(B) are selling their company’s
(C) was sell the company’s
(D) is selling they company’s

Q168.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who has love for mankind
OR
One who makes an active effort to promote human welfare
(A) Philosopher
(B) Patriot
(C) Autocrat
(D) Philanthropist

Q169.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
Mr Sharma would have left / the station / by this time / tomorrow.
(A) tomorrow
(B) by this time
(C) the station
(D) Mr Sharma would have left

Q170.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Helena loves to dig and played in the dirt like any other child.
(A) playing on dirt
(B) playing with in dirt
(C) plays of dirt
(D) play in the dirt

Q171.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Harish says / that his sister / loves to play / harmonium.
(A) harmonium
(B) loves to play
(C) Harish says
(D) that his sister

Q172.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
I asked my friend to ___________________ against her employers who are doing
wrong to her.
(A) fine words butter no parsnips
(B) finders keepers, losers weepers
(C) fight the good fight
(D) fight fire with fire

Q173.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
After years of rivalry, the two families decided to bury the hatchet.
(A) To continue an old quarrel
(B) To end a quarrel by never talking to each other
(C) To end a quarrel and become friendly
(D) To start a new quarrel

Q174.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
I ordered a dozen doughnuts, but the kind baker gave me a baker’s dozen.
(A) A group of 12 bakery items
(B) A group of 12 bakers
(C) A group of 13
(D) A group of 12

Q175.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word given in brackets to fill in the
blank.
A _________________(distinct) sense of restlessness was bothering me when I left the
cemetery.
(A) terrible
(B) critical
(C) prior
(D) vague

Q176.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Our team is all on the same page when it comes to our goals for the upcoming project.
(A) Be confused
(B) Be in agreement
(C) Be unsure
(D) Be in conflict

Q177.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
A old woman suddenly laughed, sounding just like an amused hen.
(A) like an amused hen
(B) sounding just
(C) A old woman
(D) suddenly laughed

Q178.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains an error.
As soon as I shall win the lottery, I hope to buy a Ferrari.
(A) hope
(B) As soon as
(C) shall win
(D) a Ferrari

Q179.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
The little child / wrote his name / quick / on the wall.
(A) quick
(B) wrote his name
(C) on the wall
(D) The little child

Q180.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
following sentence.
His research on the migratory patterns of the birds is run-of-the-mill.
(A) absurd
(B) one in a million
(C) trash
(D) average

Q181.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
This is the first time / I ate such / a tasty cake.
(A) I ate such
(B) This is the first time
(C) No error
(D) a tasty cake

Q182.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Tom waited until __________ to start working on his term paper but managed to finish
it just in time.
(A) the twelfth hour
(B) the thirteenth hour
(C) the tenth hour
(D) the eleventh hour

Q183.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
My teacher told me that / all that / glitters was not gold.
(A) My teacher told me that
(B) all that
(C) glitters was not gold
(D) No error

Q184.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined segment in the given sentence.
When it comes to playing the guitar, Jim always hits the nail on the head.
(A) Is dishonest
(B) Misses the point
(C) Does something right
(D) Makes a mistake

Q185.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
He simply continued to say something in order to convey information in a calm voice.
(A) dictate
(B) teach
(C) speak
(D) spell

Q186.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
A music / is a great way / to express / your emotions.
(A) to express
(B) is a great way
(C) A music
(D) your emotions

Q187.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
Rajat is known for his notorious nature. He will be friendly to your face but likes
(A) to blow his trumpet
(B) to stab you in the back
(C) to paint the whole town red
(D) to get all bent out of the shape

Q188.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Break the ice
(A) To say something that makes strangers uncomfortable
(B) To say something that makes people who are meeting for the first time more comfortable
(C) To say something that makes people excited for a group project
(D) To say something mean to people in a group

Q189.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
He told me / that he goes / to the market / to buy a laptop.
(A) He told me
(B) to buy a laptop
(C) to the market
(D) that he goes

Q190.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Shelley and Keats are great writers, but I prefer the last.
(A) the last
(B) are great writers
(C) but I prefer
(D) Shelley and Keats

Q191.
The following sentence has been divided into four parts. Identify the part that contains
an error.
(A) He will come / (B) and receive you / (C) at the station / (D) when you will arrive.
(A) A
(B) B
(C) C
(D) D

Q192.
The following sentence has been divided into four parts. Identify the part that contains
an error.
(A) Taylor, Richard, and / (B) Francis plays for / (C) the state / (D) basketball team.
(A) D
(B) A
(C) C
(D) B

Q193.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
All praised him when he soared in the business world, but the same people ______
him when he failed in business.
(A) nourished
(B) criticised
(C) supported
(D) dramatised

Q194.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the following
sentence.
Buying a home in the city centre will cost you an arm and a leg.
(A) Nothing extra
(B) A large amount of money
(C) A small amount of money
(D) Physical pain

Q195.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
They would find someone drive the wagon back across the desert.
(A) in drive in the
(B) to drive
(C) to drive the
(D) in driving

Q196.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
I will celebrating New Year at my old residence as usual.
(A) I
(B) will celebrating
(C) New Year
(D) at my old residence as usual.

Q197.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Please / explain me / how this plan / did not work.
(A) did not work
(B) Please
(C) how this plan
(D) explain me

Q198.
There is a spelling error in the given sentence. Select the option that contains the
INCORRECTLY spelt word.
The profesor’s niece was planning a pleasant surprise for him.
(A) profesor
(B) planning
(C) pleasant
(D) niece

Q199.
Choose the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the given sentence.
As soon as Rohan learned that he had topped the examination, he was on cloud nine.
(A) Very tense
(B) Very sad
(C) Very happy
(D) Very confused

Q200.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
He said that I have finished my work.
(A) he had finished his work
(B) he has finished his work
(C) I had finished my work
(D) he was finished his work

Q201.
There is a spelling error in the given sentence. Select the option that contains the
INCORRECTLY spelt word.
The hungery goblin scratched the grammar book with a feather.
(A) hungery
(B) scratched
(C) feather
(D) grammar

Q202.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
I suppose dancing that well would require a lot of actual application.
(A) prevention
(B) perseverance
(C) practice
(D) perception

Q203.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the given sentence.
The two neighbours will probably stop fighting when pigs fly
(A) When their families meet
(B) When there is magic
(C) Something that is impossible
(D) When it rains

Q204.
There is a spelling error in the given sentence. Select the option that contains the
INCORRECTLY spelt word.
As per manager’s opinion, the laser sprinkler malfuntioned.
(A) malfuntioned
(B) sprinkler
(C) laser
(D) opinion

Q205.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains an error.
When I bought the book, I thought it will be interesting.
(A) When
(B) bought
(C) will
(D) thought

Q206.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Some / private banks / pay their employees / good.
(A) private banks
(B) Some
(C) pay their employees
(D) good

Q207.
The following sentence has been divided into four parts. Identify the part that contains
an error.
(A) The twins are / (B) often told that / (C) they are resembling / (D) each other.
(A) C
(B) A
(C) B
(D) D

Q208.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
He push the bushes aside and went a little farther.
(A) pushed with bush
(B) pushing the bush
(C) pushes in bush
(D) pushed the bushes

Q209.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
Mary is a ball of fire and is always engaged in something creative.
(A) An active and energetic person
(B) A dull and insipid person
(C) To be good and beneficial for someone
(D) A talkative person

Q210.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
Sameera has been in ________ since she got selected for a highly paid job at a
multinational company.
(A) seventh heaven
(B) all the rage
(C) the dark
(D) a cold day in July

Q211.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
His older brothers were quite willing that he should went to sea.
(A) had go to
(B) have gone in
(C) gone to
(D) go to

Q212.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined segment in the given sentence.
I can't believe you let the cat out of the bag about my surprise party!
(A) Ask a question
(B) Reveal a secret
(C) Keep a secret
(D) Make a joke

Q213.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
following sentence.
She proposed to write the life history of the famous poet.
(A) novel
(B) biography
(C) mythology
(D) autobiography

Q214.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the following sentence.
He made the business profitable from unprofitable in about a year of joining.
(A) Easy come, easy go
(B) Throw up
(C) Where there is a will, there is a way
(D) Still waters run deep

Q215.
Select the option that rectifies the spelling of the underlined word in the given
sentence.
He felt priviledged to have received the country’s greatest honour.
(A) previllaged
(B) privileged
(C) privilegede
(D) privilaged

Q216.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains an error.
What most off us want most is to move forward.
(A) most off
(B) is to
(C) want most
(D) move forward

Q217.
The following sentence has been divided into four parts. Identify the part that contains
an error.
(A) The institute / (B) have been / (C) divided into / (D) multiple departments
(A) A
(B) B
(C) C
(D) D

Q218.
Select the option that rectifies the spelling of the underlined word in the given
sentence.
The sergent brought in a lot of changes as soon as he was given charge.
(A) seargeant
(B) sergeannt
(C) sergant
(D) sergeant

Q219.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
The ball / I kicked / went highly / in the sky.
(A) The ball
(B) went highly
(C) in the sky
(D) I kicked

Q220.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The action of formally accusing a public official of a serious offence
(A) Impeachment
(B) Condemnation
(C) Summon
(D) Allegation

Q221.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The mother requested the nurse to keep an eye on the baby while she went for tea.
(A) Keep informed
(B) Mistreat
(C) Watch and take care
(D) Watch for the arrival or appearance

Q222.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
In Nepal, the food is more cheaper than in Sri Lanka.
(A) more cheaper
(B) the food is
(C) than in Sri Lanka
(D) In Nepal

Q223.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
It’s risky to invest all your savings in one company; it’s like _______________.
(A) going down in flames
(B) putting all your eggs in one basket
(C) biting the bullet
(D) breaking a leg

Q224.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A cage made for birds.
OR
A place for keeping the birds in a confined space.
(A) Aquarium
(B) Apiary
(C) Aviary
(D) Arena

Q225.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains an error.
I will going on an official tour next week.
(A) on
(B) will going
(C) next week
(D) an official tour

Q226.
There is a spelling error in the given sentence. Select the option that contains the
INCORRECTLY spelt word.
The questionnaire appeared to be misrably designed.
(A) designed
(B) questionnaire
(C) misrably
(D) appeared

Q227.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
By living in a rural area with access to the city, she gets _______________.
(A) the best of both worlds
(B) to keep an ear to the ground
(C) on cloud nine
(D) in for a penny in for a pound

Q228.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who is kept captive for fulfilment of demands of money or conditions.
(A) Doyen
(B) Bait
(C) Hostage
(D) Scion

Q229.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Andrew will playing basketball at the college tournament.
(A) are play the
(B) are play
(C) is playing
(D) is played

Q230.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Augmented Reality (AR) continues to develop and become more _________ among a
wide range of applications.
(A) rare
(B) amicable
(C) idealistic
(D) pervasive

Q231.
There is a spelling error in the given sentence. Select the option that contains the
INCORRECTLY spelt word.
He was in despare because of the expiry of his licence.
(A) expiry
(B) because
(C) licence
(D) despare

Q232.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Jaya said that she will become topper in her class.
(A) in her class
(B) she will become topper
(C) that
(D) Jaya said

Q233.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
Rahul speaks easily in front of a small group, but he seems ________ before a large
audience.
(A) ill at ease
(B) think ill of
(C) man of ill repute
(D) ill-disposed to

Q234.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains an error.
If he will come early, we will leave on time.
(A) will come
(B) If he
(C) on time
(D) we will

Q235.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
She will handling the baby as tenderly as possible.
(A) wills handle
(B) shall handles
(C) will handle
(D) will handled

Q236.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The arrangement of events or dates in the order of their occurrence
(A) Chronology
(B) Theology
(C) Entomology
(D) Psychology

Q237.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
The CEO has _____________ than worrying about individual customer complaints.
(A) bigger fish to fry
(B) taken a rain check
(C) thrown caution to the wind
(D) been walking on thin ice

Q238.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
He studies the subject known as the scientific study of insects.
(A) Entomology
(B) Alchemy
(C) Biology
(D) Etymology

Q239.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The judge wanted to hear straight from the horse’s mouth.
(A) Directly from the lawyer
(B) Directly from the person involved
(C) In close vicinity to the juror
(D) Having ears which never fail

Q240.
Parts of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options. Select the
option that contains an error.
My relatives shall have reached Amritsar by now.
(A) My
(B) by now
(C) shall
(D) reached

Q241.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
They will start their journey after the breakfast.
(A) will start
(B) their journey
(C) They
(D) after the breakfast

Q242.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Ishita will playing Tennis for her favourite team.
(A) will playing
(B) Tennis for
(C) her favourite team
(D) Ishita

Q243.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
I had / a bad habit of / waking up / lately.
(A) lately
(B) waking up
(C) a bad habit of
(D) I had

Q244.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
It's easy to say that you'll start exercising every day, but it is ______________.
(A) like fish out of water
(B) easier said than done
(C) crying wolf
(D) going the extra mile

Q245.
Select the option that rectifies the spelling of the underlined word in the given
sentence.
The politician guaranted that he would create jobs if elected.
(A) gurranted
(B) gauaranteed
(C) guarranteed
(D) guaranteed

Q246.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
Instead of answering the question directly, the politician kept ___________.
(A) crying over spilt milk
(B) pointing at his laurels
(C) beating around the bush
(D) spilling the bean

Q247.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
You are an intellectual with a professional degree; you can do wonders as
(A) you are playing with fire
(B) you can say it again
(C) your mileage may vary
(D) the world is your oyster

Q248.
The following sentence has been divided into four parts. Identify the part that contains
an error.
(A) It is a / (B) state of chaos / (C) since the / (D) chairman resigned.
(A) D
(B) A
(C) B
(D) C

Q249.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
If Peter said he would get that book for you, he will do it. He always ________.
(A) keeps under his hat
(B) keeps him at arm’s length
(C) keeps his word
(D) keeps his shirt on

Q250.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Perhaps my family visit the Taj Mahal next month.
(A) next month
(B) Perhaps
(C) the Taj Mahal
(D) my family visit

Q251.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
You are always try with jump over the wall.
(A) trying in jumping
(B) try to jump
(C) trying to jump
(D) tried with jump

Q252.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
Jack took on three jobs at once but soon realised he had _____________.
(A) cut corners
(B) taken it with a grain of salt
(C) bitten off more than he could chew
(D) played by the ear

Q253.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
Many people fought to put an end to slavery during the civil war.
(A) abolish
(B) absorb
(C) abide
(D) abduct

Q254.
The following sentence has been divided into four parts. Identify the part that contains
an error.
(A) We are living / (B) here since / (C) the summer / (D) of last year.
(A) A
(B) C
(C) B
(D) D

Q255.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blanks.
(Ø = No article)
____ doctor suggested doing some eye exercises and wearing ____ pair of powered
glasses.
(A) A; a
(B) Ø; a
(C) A; Ø
(D) The; a

Q256.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The council president is known to play devil’s advocate often.
(A) To allow others to rise
(B) To play risky games
(C) To argue, just for the sake of it
(D) Make one’s own destiny

Q257.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
I have seen / a movie / on schooling / yesterday.
(A) I have seen
(B) on schooling
(C) yesterday
(D) a movie

Q258.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
To go away suddenly and secretly in order to escape from somewhere
(A) Abscond
(B) Vanish
(C) Excavate
(D) Extradite

Q259.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
If you need any help tomorrow, let him knows.
(A) let me know
(B) let us known
(C) let him known
(D) let them knew

Q260.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Copying someone else’s work and trying to submit it as your own
(A) Plagiarism
(B) Polygamy
(C) Preamble
(D) Extempore

Q261.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
The handloom shop at the Ring Road has many kinds of bags, such as paper, leather,
cloth and cannvas.
(A) Paper
(B) Cannvas
(C) Leather
(D) Cloth

Q262.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
Sita loves her glass container in which she has many fish.
(A) aquarium
(B) cannister
(C) planetarium
(D) museum

Q263.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the
following sentence.
Ramya’s shoes are polish by her granddaughter.
(A) polishes
(B) had polished
(C) are polished
(D) is polish

Q264.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
He was on cloud nine when he got admission in Cambridge University.
(A) involved in useless journey
(B) very happy
(C) unsettled
(D) available to be called to go to work

Q265.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
You shall repented tomorrow for your misdeeds.
(A) for your misdeeds
(B) tomorrow
(C) shall repented
(D) You

Q266.
The following sentence has been divided into four parts. Identify the part that contains
an error.
(A) This fridge / (B) comes including / (C) a 5-year / (D) warranty.
(A) B
(B) C
(C) D
(D) A

Q267.
Select the option that correctly rectifies the spelling error that is underlined.
The questionaire used by the researcher was of top quality.
(A) quesstionnaire
(B) questionnaire
(C) questionnairre
(D) questionnairee

Q268.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The detective went the whole nine yards in his investigation.
(A) Measuring every step
(B) Everything, all the way
(C) Close affinity with the law
(D) Taking the distant call

Q269.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Everyone likes in watch a magic show.
(A) likes to watching
(B) like in watching
(C) likes to watch
(D) liked in watch

Q270.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the
following sentence.
The energetic kitten is playful after having his breakfast.
(A) its
(B) it’s
(C) it
(D) it is

Q271.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the following sentence.
Shweta organises the sale of handmade pottery at a cheap rate.
(A) Hush money
(B) Go for a song
(C) Having one’s cake and eating it too
(D) Making a fuss out of something

Q272.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Blessing in disguise
(A) Something that seems good but is harmful for you
(B) Something that seems bad but provides some benefit
(C) Something that cannot be hidden from anyone
(D) Something that remains hidden from everyone

Q273.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
Jane, please don’t tell me fairy tales; I just want to know the real matter ________.
(A) in the cold
(B) in a fortnight
(C) in the long run
(D) in a nutshell

Q274.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
Did / her friend / went to / school yesterday?
(A) went to
(B) school yesterday
(C) her friend
(D) Did

Q275.
The following sentence has been divided into four parts. Identify the part that contains
an error.
(A) Four divided by / (B) two is coming / (C) out to / (D) be two.
(A) D
(B) C
(C) B
(D) A

Q276.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
During the meeting, he went on a long and angry _______ about how the project was
being mismanaged.
(A) shout
(B) whisper
(C) rant
(D) mutter

Q277.
The following sentence has been divided into four parts. Identify the part that contains
an error.
(A) One of / (B) my brothers write / (C) novels for / (D) leisure.
(A) D
(B) A
(C) B
(D) C

Q278.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the given sentence.
Rina’s house is at a stone’s throw from the school.
(A) A very long distance
(B) Next to
(C) A very short distance
(D) Not very close to

Q279.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person living in solitude like a saint for religious practices.
(A) Hermit
(B) Cretin
(C) Heir
(D) Heretic

Q280.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given phrase.
A person who is known for his hatred towards the entire mankind.
(A) Insolvent
(B) Philogynist
(C) Mercenary
(D) Misanthrope

Q281.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
I know it was wrong to distract his friends, but ________.
(A) all’s fair in love and war
(B) all’s unfair in the world
(C) all’s unfair in love and war
(D) all’s fair in the world

Q282.
Choose the option which best expresses the meaning of the given idiom.
By fair means or foul
(A) To work without planning
(B) To find difficulty in completing some work
(C) To get one’s way with honesty or dishonesty
(D) To provoke someone into quarrelling

Q283.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who avoids sensory pleasures and physical comforts
(A) Frugal
(B) Epicurean
(C) Bohemian
(D) Ascetic

Q284.
The following sentence has been divided into four parts. Identify the part that contains
an error.
(A) It is said / (B) that fortune / (C) favour the / (D) brave.
(A) B
(B) C
(C) A
(D) D

Q285.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
Children below the age of 14 were not allowed to partisipate in the cooking
competition.
(A) Competition
(B) Partisipate
(C) Children
(D) Allowed

Q286.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Simon is afraid of closed space.
(A) has xenophobia
(B) has ecophobia
(C) has claustrophobia
(D) has hydrophobia

Q287.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Oberon doesn’t like the way Demetrius ________ to Helena. (Credit: A Midsummer
Night’s Dream)
(A) talked
(B) talks
(C) talking
(D) to talk

Q288.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
I considered Geography as an easier subject.
(A) the easy
(B) the easier
(C) an easiest
(D) an easy

Q289.
Choose the sentence that contains an error.
(A) The Mona Lisa is a famous painting by Leonardo da Vinci.
(B) She is the only person who can speak five languages fluently.
(C) He is a doctor who specialises in the treating rare diseases.
(D) I saw the movie that won the Academy Award for Best Picture.

Q290.
Select the word segment which substitutes the bracketed word correctly and
completes the sentence meaningfully.
Mathematics (are not) easy to learn.
(A) were not
(B) was not
(C) has not
(D) is not

Q291.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
When it comes to planning her wedding, Maria wants ________________.
(A) down for the count
(B) a black sheep
(C) the whole fifteen miles
(D) the whole nine yards

Q292.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Tushar is junior than all his colleagues.
(A) junior than all
(B) is
(C) Tushar
(D) his colleagues

Q293.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
The boy whose the sister is ill has left.
(A) is ill
(B) has left
(C) The boy
(D) whose the sister

Q294.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who regards the whole world as his country
(A) Cosmopolitan
(B) Pacifist
(C) Contemporary
(D) Celibate

Q295.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Ramesh is owning a beautiful house in Noida.
(A) did owned
(B) owns
(C) has owning
(D) was owned

Q296.
Select the option that rectifies the spelling of the underlined word in the given
sentence.
The maintenence department did a fabulous job.
(A) mainteanance
(B) maintenance
(C) maintenannce
(D) meintenance

Q297.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Kavya invited all her friends, isn’t it?
(A) didn’t she?
(B) did she?
(C) don’t she?
(D) isn’t she?

Q298.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The toddler decided to make a mess because he wanted to ______ the attention of its
parents.
(A) seek
(B) elicit
(C) please
(D) extract

Q299.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To cut someone some slack
(A) Avoid talking about problems till the very end
(B) To get the conversation going
(C) To criticise someone very strictly
(D) To not manage someone very strictly or critically

Q300.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given phrase.
A poem of lamentation on the death of someone loved and admired.
(A) Soliloquy
(B) Elegy
(C) Tragedy
(D) Epitaph

Q301.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given phrase.
One who lends money to others at a very high rate of interest.
(A) Curator
(B) Bankrupt
(C) Usurer
(D) Numismatist

Q302.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Many a things are used for the show.
(A) a things is
(B) a things were
(C) a thing is
(D) a thing were

Q303.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
Our trainer asked for _______ on her for the next informative session.
(A) chasing rainbows
(B) being around the bend
(C) all eyes and ears
(D) going bananas

Q304.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
If you work hard, you secure good marks.
(A) good marks
(B) If you
(C) work hard
(D) you secure

Q305.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
She has / bought / a car / two years ago.
(A) She has
(B) bought
(C) two years ago
(D) a car

Q306.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The actor decided to live life in the fast lane.
(A) Dropping charges of crime
(B) A life filled with excitement
(C) Racing away to the moon
(D) A life of extreme speed

Q307.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
I don’t think you should go out in the rain, it's ________.
(A) rain on cats and dogs
(B) storming cats and dogs
(C) raining cats and dogs
(D) raining dogs and puppies

Q308.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Rashmi works at the hospital, don’t she?
(A) does she?
(B) has she?
(C) doesn’t she?
(D) do she?

Q309.
Select the word segment which substitutes the bracketed word correctly and
completes the sentence meaningfully.
I (am here) since 1981.
(A) have been here
(B) had been here
(C) was here
(D) has been here

Q310.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined segment in the given sentence.
I hope you break a leg at your performance tonight!
(A) Give up
(B) Make a mistake
(C) Perform well
(D) Hurt yourself

Q311.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Tuntun and her friends dance beautiful.
(A) dance
(B) and her friends
(C) Tuntun
(D) beautiful

Q312.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
When Nisha will have finished her task?
(A) have
(B) When Nisha will
(C) finished
(D) her task

Q313.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Her stories paid _____ to her mother, whom she regarded as the goddess of bravery.
(A) frustration
(B) sainthood
(C) absoluteness
(D) homage

Q314.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The shopkeeper was sly as a fox and tried to sell off the old stock.
(A) smart and clever
(B) slow
(C) suspicious
(D) in confusion or disagreement

Q315.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Pay an arm and a leg for something
(A) Be devoted to unwanted things
(B) Pay a lot of money for something
(C) Give a lot of love and care to someone
(D) Pay a lot of attention to an incident

Q316.
Select the most appropriate word to fill in the blank.
Ministry of education has announced that students can ________ the Board
Examinations twice.
(A) take
(B) participate
(C) give
(D) get

Q317.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The tigress that was killed by the villagers was not only a man-eater, ________ a
mother.
(A) but
(B) but also
(C) and
(D) but often

Q318.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Bhanu, the security guard, asks everyone entering my building to show their ________
card.
(A) identity
(B) place
(C) self
(D) name

Q319.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Be like chalk and cheese
(A) To be completely different from each other
(B) To be very similar to each other
(C) To have a close relation with another person
(D) To be distantly related to each other

Q320.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given phrase.
A place where water is collected and stored for future use.
(A) Aquarium
(B) Resort
(C) Sanatorium
(D) Reservoir

Q321.
Choose the sentence that contains an error.
(A) I saw a movie that was directed by Steven Spielberg.
(B) She is the only person who can solve this difficult math problem.
(C) He is an lawyer who works for a prestigious law firm.
(D) The Great Wall of China is a popular tourist attraction.

Q322.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
He managed to save his father’s business by the sweat of his brow.
(A) incidentally
(B) hard work
(C) tricks and strategies
(D) any way possible

Q323.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
All the members of my family are planning to visit Jammu and Kashmir this Novembur.
(A) Novembur
(B) Planning
(C) Visit
(D) Members

Q324.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A number which is used to divide another number
(A) Divisible
(B) Quotient
(C) Remainder
(D) Divisor

Q325.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The entrepreneur decided to throw caution to the wind.
(A) Take a risk
(B) Take the best option
(C) Think innovatively
(D) In extreme windy conditions

Q326.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
She think Alex is abandoning her.
(A) was thinking
(B) thought
(C) thinks
(D) was to think

Q327.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
The cholera is a frightful disease.
(A) is
(B) The cholera
(C) frightful disease
(D) a

Q328.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The students of class 7 gave their teacher a gift, which was ________ to her.
(A) revealing
(B) shocking
(C) confusing
(D) surprising

Q329.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The food was too salty eat this morning.
(A) eating
(B) ate
(C) to ate
(D) to eat

Q330.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The team had a _________ with respect to the proposal given by Mr. Albert.
(A) descussion
(B) discusion
(C) disckassion
(D) discussion

Q331.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Vikram is very stronger than I am.
(A) very stronger
(B) I am
(C) Vikram is
(D) than

Q332.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
I shall be playing for four hours.
(A) four hours
(B) I
(C) shall be playing
(D) for

Q333.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Barking up the wrong tree
(A) Provoke trouble
(B) To make a bad situation worse
(C) Getting a good start is important
(D) To be mistaken, to be looking for solutions in the wrong place

Q334.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined segment in the given sentence.
Buying a new car can cost an arm and a leg.
(A) Be free
(B) Be affordable
(C) Be reasonable
(D) Be expensive

Q335.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Bigger fish to fry
(A) To barely get something done
(B) Having something more important to take care of
(C) Having work more than one’s capacity
(D) To be similar to one’s parents in some way

Q336.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who does not believe in the existence of God
(A) Atheist
(B) Priest
(C) Monk
(D) Believer

Q337.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Keep someone at arm’s length
(A) To ruin someone’s plans
(B) To avoid becoming too close or friendly with someone
(C) Angry about something
(D) Having energy again after being tired

Q338.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The tone of his voice seemed to ______ that he knew more than he was letting on.
(A) incise
(B) intent
(C) inculcate
(D) imply

Q339.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The company was on thin ice.
(A) In a situation of comfort
(B) Forcing itself to collaborate
(C) Depending on business competitors
(D) In a precarious or risky situation

Q340.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
The police inspector knows the ins and outs of the murder case.
(A) laws
(B) all the witnesses
(C) lawyers and judges
(D) full details

Q341.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
They have less books than I have.
(A) I have
(B) They have
(C) than
(D) less books

Q342.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
The platinum is a precious metal.
(A) is
(B) The platinum
(C) a
(D) precious metal

Q343.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
A strong _________ for mathematics and problem-solving can be very useful.
(A) strength
(B) aptitude
(C) functioning
(D) perception

Q344.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam was a great man with a high level of ________.
(A) intelligent humour
(B) wise boredom
(C) intellect
(D) clever fatigue

Q345.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who is skilled in making maps
(A) Calligrapher
(B) Curator
(C) Cacographer
(D) Cartographer

Q346.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the given sentence.
Today’s question paper felt like a cakewalk.
(A) Very sweet
(B) Very tasty
(C) Very easy
(D) Very difficult

Q347.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A small shop that sells fashionable clothes
(A) Boutique
(B) Store
(C) Tailoring
(D) Couture

Q348.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Chaitnya was __________ from the school due to his misappropriate behaviour.
(A) expelled
(B) xpelled
(C) expeled
(D) xpeled

Q349.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the following sentence.
Being a doktor, my sister Meera is prepared for an emergency usually.
(A) prepared
(B) doktor
(C) usually
(D) emergency

Q350.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
She told me, ________, that she was going to live in New York.
(A) blue blood
(B) black and blue
(C) out of the blue
(D) once in a blue moon

Q351.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who loves or collects books
(A) Anglophile
(B) Heliophile
(C) Paedophile
(D) Bibliophile

Q352.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Sanjana rubbed her eyes hardly.
(A) Sanjana
(B) rubbed
(C) hardly
(D) her eyes

Q353.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
An examination of a body after death
(A) Post room
(B) Post death
(C) Post partum
(D) Post mortem

Q354.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
The blue is a beautiful colour.
(A) The blue
(B) is
(C) a
(D) beautiful colour

Q355.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The old man distributed his property ________ his ten grandchildren equally.
(A) within
(B) among
(C) towards
(D) between

Q356.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who looks at the dark side of life
(A) Physicist
(B) Optimist
(C) Pessimist
(D) Idealist

Q357.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
They are going to give me a lovely present, but I cannot ____ what it will be.
(A) give
(B) gist
(C) guess
(D) guest

Q358.
Select the correct spelling of the underlined word in the following sentence.
Today’s lecture had a profond impact on my friend.
(A) profoun
(B) prufound
(C) prefound
(D) profound

Q359.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
Naina has six children, and I always ________ with their names.
(A) get mixed up
(B) get rid of
(C) get away clean
(D) get cold feet

Q360.
Select the most appropriate word to fill in the blank.
Hardik Pandya hit four ________ fours and scored 72 runs in the match.
(A) continuous
(B) consecutive
(C) ongoing
(D) constant

Q361.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Most times, he is sitting alone, immersed in his own ______________.
(A) synagogue
(B) monologue
(C) mystagogue
(D) prologue

Q362.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
I ___________ to many countries to find the source of true happiness.
(A) triveled
(B) travelled
(C) travalled
(D) travelld

Q363.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The teacher assured: “You have completed your homework, __________?”
(A) had you
(B) hadn’t you
(C) haven’t you
(D) have you

Q364.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A thing which happens every two years
(A) Century
(B) Annual
(C) Biennial
(D) Bi-monthly

Q365.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
France is a largest country.
(A) smaller
(B) larger
(C) smallest
(D) large

Q366.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Ravi will go to the England.
(A) the England
(B) will
(C) Ravi
(D) go to

Q367.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the following sentence.
The detective and his agent inspected the krime scene yesterday.
(A) krime
(B) yesterday
(C) agent
(D) detective

Q368.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Beat around the bush
(A) To be persistent in pursuing a goal
(B) To be impatient and short-tempered
(C) To be direct and formal
(D) To avoid addressing a topic correctly

Q369.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Have egg on your face
(A) Defeat someone thoroughly
(B) To be made to look foolish or embarrassed
(C) Making a choice between two unpleasant choices
(D) Reveal a secret

Q370.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A creature which depends on others
(A) Microbes
(B) Virus
(C) Parasite
(D) Bacteria

Q371.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
As phony as a three-dollar bill
(A) Something that is attractive
(B) Something that is genuine
(C) Something that is disgusting
(D) Something that is fake

Q372.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
He is a smug and very ______ person who thinks only about himself.
(A) arsonist
(B) diffident
(C) egoistic
(D) humble

Q373.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who feeds on human flesh
(A) Cannibal
(B) Carnivore
(C) Nudge
(D) Omnivore

Q374.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Everyone liked the lively music being played at the restaurant.
(A) Durable
(B) Cheerful
(C) Speedy
(D) Sombre

Q375.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Ours is ________ house of all the houses in our area.
(A) the more bigger
(B) the biggest
(C) the most biggest
(D) the bigger

Q376.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Study of sound and sound waves
(A) Botany
(B) Physics
(C) Demography
(D) Acoustics

Q377.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Shiya had more grit than her other siblings.
(A) power
(B) level
(C) gap
(D) courage

Q378.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
These things are very hard to swallow.
(A) difficult to resist
(B) difficult to speak
(C) difficult to believe
(D) difficult to eat

Q379.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Varun has to ______ his studies for the sake of his ill father.
(A) sacrifice
(B) imitate
(C) reverse
(D) applaud

Q380.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Killing of one’s own father
(A) Matricide
(B) Filicide
(C) Patricide
(D) Suicide

Q381.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Fear of closed spaces
(A) Xenophobia
(B) Claustrophobia
(C) Hydrophobia
(D) Zoophobia

Q382.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Addiction of drugs proved detrimental for his health.
(A) Impartial
(B) Potential
(C) Beneficial
(D) Differential

Q383.
Select the correct spelling of the underlined word in the following sentence.
He dispised the taste of black coffee.
(A) despisid
(B) disspised
(C) despised
(D) despeded

Q384.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Her dedication to her work was _______ what anyone had expected.
(A) over
(B) beyond
(C) beside
(D) through

Q385.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Fail to function normally
(A) Maltreat
(B) Mangle
(C) Manipulate
(D) Malfunction

Q386.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
He generally avoids arguments as he is _____ by nature.
(A) questionable
(B) reliable
(C) quick-minded
(D) peaceful

Q387.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Castles in the air
(A) Unrealistic and impossible plan
(B) Unexpected change in the climate
(C) Realistic and possible plan
(D) Strong hope to get success

Q388.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
We prefer going to movies once in a blue moon.
(A) Very rarely
(B) Very amazingly
(C) Very diligently
(D) Very often

Q389.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Many soldiers marched in ________ at the international border.
(A) dress
(B) uniform
(C) fabric
(D) clothes

Q390.
Choose the sentence that contains an error.
(A) I love the taste of fresh strawberries in the summer.
(B) She is the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize.
(C) He is chef who specialises in Italian cuisine.
(D) The Earth revolves around the Sun.

Q391.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
He is _________ of many chain snatching cases in Dariyaganj.
(A) ackused
(B) acxused
(C) akused
(D) accused

Q392.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
Ramesh always blows his own trumpet.
(A) praises himself
(B) criticises himself
(C) does his own work
(D) depends on others

Q393.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
By the skin of your teeth
(A) By a very narrow margin
(B) To be less affected by criticisms and rebuffs
(C) Very protective
(D) Saved by others

Q394.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Spill the beans
(A) Excellent health
(B) Behave or speak in a rash manner
(C) Things always get worse
(D) To reveal a secret information unintentionally

Q395.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The killing of a king
(A) Regicide
(B) Fratricide
(C) Sororicide
(D) Patricide

Q396.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Some things are meant to be, and death is ______ for humans.
(A) edible
(B) spiral
(C) natural
(D) viral

Q397.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Ravi has little in _____________ with his friend, Senthil.
(A) common
(B) contention
(C) formal
(D) normal

Q398.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
He was admired for introducing welfare programmes.
(A) Despised
(B) Confessed
(C) Appreciated
(D) Succeeded

Q399.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Endless period of time
(A) Eternity
(B) Longevity
(C) Impurity
(D) Frailty

Q400.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
My friend’s business has grown by leaps and bounds.
(A) rapidly
(B) aimlessly
(C) perfectly
(D) slowly

Q401.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A man whose wife is dead
(A) Widower
(B) Ascetic
(C) Widow
(D) Bachelor

Q402.
Select the appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Grasping at straws
(A) Futile attempts to win
(B) Desperate attempt to succeed
(C) Holding the last strands of straw
(D) Wasting time enjoying and relaxing

Q403.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Butterfly was attracted towards the bright flowers.
(A) Reckoned
(B) Repulsed
(C) Reargued
(D) Recurred

Q404.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
He is first ______ to his job and then to his family.
(A) enabled
(B) committed
(C) confirmed
(D) convinced

Q405.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Beat around the bush
(A) To avoid talking about what is important
(B) To talk about important things
(C) To have patience
(D) To avoid people

Q406.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Easily set on fire
(A) Innocuous
(B) Ingrained
(C) Inflammable
(D) Inimical

Q407.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
They waited with anxiety for the final results.
(A) Shrewdness
(B) Wilderness
(C) Feebleness
(D) Calmness

Q408.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A place of burial
(A) Building
(B) Laboratory
(C) Cemetery
(D) Observatory

Q409.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The mother ________ the chips because they were soggy.
(A) saved
(B) wasted
(C) discarded
(D) recovered

Q410.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A lover of books
(A) Philosopher
(B) Librarian
(C) Teacher
(D) Bibliophile

Q411.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Not fit for eating
(A) Inept
(B) Ineligible
(C) Ineluctable
(D) Inedible

Q412.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Call it a day
(A) To have the greatest day ever
(B) To stop working
(C) To be very straightforward
(D) To refer to something as something else

Q413.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
A storm in a teacup
(A) Much excitement over something trivial
(B) A signal for upcoming storm
(C) Easy money
(D) Suffering in silence

Q414.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
A/An ________ fellow cannot become an ideal teacher.
(A) idle
(B) bright
(C) intelligent
(D) honest

Q415.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
The deal was ________ for three months.
(A) cut no ice
(B) broken the ice
(C) tipped of the iceberg
(D) put on ice

Q416.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
The girl was manacled and locked in the room.
(A) unfastened
(B) liberated
(C) fettered
(D) unbinded

Q417.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Pause indecisively
(A) Hibernate
(B) Hesitate
(C) Hoist
(D) Hobble

Q418.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Bone to pick
(A) To be angry about something and want to discuss it
(B) To stop trying hard
(C) To not give up
(D) Putting in extra effort

Q419.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Spill the beans
(A) To believe something as it seems
(B) To tell a secret
(C) To do things in a fair way
(D) To cry over what is done

Q420.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
The play I saw last night was a ________.
(A) hit the road
(B) hit the hay
(C) smash hit
(D) hit the roof

Q421.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Get your act together
(A) To have patience
(B) To stay together
(C) To act in a play
(D) Get organised and do things better

Q422.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
Please tell me about the meeting ________.
(A) in a nutshell
(B) in a stew
(C) in a huff
(D) in a spin

Q423.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
We requested grandmother to extend her visit.
(A) Imperil
(B) Curtail
(C) Assail
(D) Bewail

Q424.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Suresh has been learning Tamil ________ two months.
(A) from
(B) since
(C) before
(D) for

Q425.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
His amazing performance made him famous.
(A) Ordinary
(B) Colliery
(C) Adversary
(D) Binary

Q426.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The Nile is the ________ river of the world.
(A) long
(B) longer
(C) more longer
(D) longest

Q427.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The rusty door made a ________ screeching noise.
(A) low
(B) soft
(C) harsh
(D) smooth

Q428.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Unpleasant
(A) Nebulous
(B) Natal
(C) Negligible
(D) Nasty

Q429.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Group of bees
(A) Gaggle
(B) Shoal
(C) Swarm
(D) Pack

Q430.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Can you quote any _______ in your favour?
(A) answer
(B) summary
(C) lines
(D) precedent

Q431.
Select the word which means the same as the group of words given.
That which can’t be read.
(A) Inaccessible
(B) Incurable
(C) Illegible
(D) Irrelevant

Q432.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To keep one’s temper
(A) To meet with disaster
(B) To become impatient
(C) To become angry
(D) To remain calm

Q433.
Select the word which means the same as the group of words given.
One who is all powerful.
(A) Omnipresent
(B) Omnipotent
(C) Optimist
(D) Omniscient

Q434.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Cup of tea
(A) Long held desire
(B) A cup brimming with tea
(C) Favourite pastime
(D) Something one likes/excels in

Q435.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Make-up was _______ she hardly wore.
(A) anything
(B) something
(C) anybody
(D) someone

Q436.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given phrase.
All of a sudden
(A) Intentionally
(B) Quickly and unexpectedly
(C) Quickly and Expectedly
(D) Accidently

Q437.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
Ray was cynical about love.
(A) prolific
(B) obese
(C) trusting
(D) pessimistic

Q438.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Sell like hot cakes
(A) Quick sell out
(B) Selling cakes
(C) Being ignored
(D) Eating hot cake

Q439.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Bite the dust
(A) To suffer a defeat
(B) To fall from a height
(C) To remain calm
(D) To fall asleep

Q440.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
From scratch
(A) From a skin disease
(B) From the beginning
(C) From utter disorder
(D) From death

Q441.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To get cold feet
(A) To be afraid
(B) To fall sick
(C) To be indifferent
(D) To run for life

Q442.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
The apple of one’s eye
(A) Very cheerful
(B) Very dear
(C) Very nice
(D) Very pleasing

Q443.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Into hot water
(A) Not on good terms
(B) In favour with
(C) Came to nothing
(D) Into trouble

Q444.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
I wish we had ______ come here.
(A) right
(B) clear
(C) never
(D) agreed

Q445.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Beauty of it
(A) Make things worse
(B) Cause for dispute
(C) Quite ordinary
(D) Good points

Q446.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Child’s play
(A) In someone’s role
(B) Something very easy
(C) Weakness
(D) Just behaviour

Q447.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Day and night
(A) Continuously
(B) Clumsily
(C) Adversely
(D) Diligently

Q448.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) habituated
(B) habituating
(C) will be habituating
(D) are habituated

Q449.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
To cross swords
(A) To kill
(B) To arrange
(C) To fight
(D) To defend

Q450.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) involvement
(B) satisfaction
(C) demonstration
(D) identification

Q451.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Obsession
(A) Discrimination
(B) Fascination
(C) Unconcern
(D) Sympathy

Q452.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) normalisation
(B) urbanisation
(C) standardisation
(D) implementation

Q453.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Distinguished
(A) Mirrored
(B) Dignified
(C) Dramatic
(D) Mediocre

Q454.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Empathetic
(A) Lonely
(B) Merciless
(C) Charismatic
(D) Frustrated

Q455.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) celebration
(B) development
(C) enthusiasm
(D) distribution

Q456.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) was changed
(B) was changing
(C) changing
(D) are changing

Q457.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) sophisticated
(B) pessimistic
(C) cumbersome
(D) readable

Q458.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Repulsive
(A) Attractive
(B) Reliable
(C) Disgusting
(D) Uniform

Q459.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) driving
(B) walking down
(C) running down
(D) running up

Q460.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) closer than
(B) bigger than
(C) above than
(D) more than

Q461.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) easy going
(B) apprehensive
(C) productive
(D) authentic

Q462.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Divergent
(A) Addition
(B) Similar
(C) Disrespectful
(D) Obvious

Q463.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) arrangement
(B) statement
(C) management
(D) settlement

Q464.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) was qualify
(B) qualify
(C) qualification
(D) qualified

Q465.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) necessities
(B) identities
(C) facilities
(D) amenities

Q466.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) nutrition
(B) nutrients
(C) preservatives
(D) additives

Q467.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) confidence
(B) hesitation
(C) assurance
(D) uncertainty

Q468.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Forthcoming
(A) Large
(B) Extensive
(C) Adventurous
(D) Past

Q469.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Enchanted
(A) Disgusted
(B) Cursed
(C) Appealing
(D) Repelling

Q470.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Wisdom
(A) Stupidity
(B) Experience
(C) Modesty
(D) Intelligence

Q471.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Determined
(A) Flexible
(B) Famous
(C) Decisive
(D) Elevated

Q472.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Nonchalant
(A) Flexible
(B) Caring
(C) Marvellous
(D) Covert

Q473.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Demolish
(A) Invite
(B) Criticise
(C) Construct
(D) Appreciate

Q474.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) properly
(B) gradually
(C) appropriately
(D) slightly

Q475.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Magnificent
(A) Justify
(B) Glorious
(C) Highest
(D) Modest

Q476.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Humility
(A) Shyness
(B) Timidity
(C) Arrogance
(D) Obedience

Q477.
Identify the most appropriate meaning of the given word.
Ancient
(A) Antique
(B) Unworn
(C) Contemporary
(D) Recent

Q478.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) delimitation
(B) protection
(C) diversion
(D) proscription

Q479.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) digitally
(B) digitalise
(C) digital
(D) digitalised

Q480.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Strengthen
(A) Debilitate
(B) Strain
(C) Fortify
(D) Ascend

Q481.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Enormous
(A) Tiny
(B) Inapposite
(C) Irrelevant
(D) Gigantic

Q482.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) calculating
(B) guiding
(C) producing
(D) preparing

Q483.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) manually
(B) digitally
(C) mentally
(D) physically

Q484.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) absolute
(B) doubt
(C) unconfirmed
(D) provisional

Q485.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) Therefore
(B) As it is
(C) However
(D) For example

Q486.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Periodic
(A) Holistic
(B) Dynamic
(C) Irregular
(D) Tedious

Q487.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Dishevelled
(A) Assertive
(B) Tidy
(C) Tainted
(D) Rigid

Q488.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Guilty
(A) Responsible
(B) Innocent
(C) Criminal
(D) Patient

Q489.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) uplifted
(B) damaged
(C) derailed
(D) channelised

Q490.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Laconic
(A) Reasonable
(B) Fanciful
(C) Concise
(D) Certain

Q491.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Harmony
(A) Adaptability
(B) Clarity
(C) Unity
(D) Conflict

Q492.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) terminated
(B) culminated
(C) originated
(D) fragmented

Q493.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) risky
(B) infallible
(C) unreliable
(D) fallible

Q494.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) largest
(B) longest
(C) biggest
(D) most highest

Q495.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) laughing
(B) receiving
(C) assisting
(D) grazing

Q496.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Cordial
(A) Unfriendly
(B) Friendly
(C) Brave
(D) Aromatic

Q497.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) sections
(B) emphasises
(C) burdens
(D) benefits

Q498.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) sincerely
(B) partially
(C) gradually
(D) deliberately

Q499.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) residue
(B) bacteria
(C) chemicals
(D) organisms

Q500.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) assortment
(B) fun
(C) nutrients
(D) advancement

Q501.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) dormitory
(B) kennel
(C) sanctuary
(D) cemetery

Q502.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) fooling
(B) questioning
(C) fighting
(D) seeing

Q503.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) Acquiring
(B) Acquires
(C) Acquire
(D) Acquired

Q504.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) Since
(B) However
(C) As a result
(D) Therefore

Q505.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) diminishing
(B) evolving
(C) depleting
(D) stagnating

Q506.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Often
(A) Generally
(B) Rarely
(C) Periodically
(D) Usually

Q507.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Carnal
(A) Material
(B) Spiritual
(C) Temporal
(D) Somatic

Q508.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) frightened
(B) laughable
(C) funny
(D) muffled

Q509.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Diminish
(A) Demote
(B) Relegate
(C) Prevent
(D) Weaken

Q510.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) demeans
(B) devours
(C) addresses
(D) neglects

Q511.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) lovely
(B) precious
(C) fundamental
(D) joyful

Q512.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) reimagining
(B) adapting
(C) neglecting
(D) enabling

Q513.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) mindset
(B) chats
(C) discussions
(D) thinking

Q514.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Hesitate
(A) Blabber
(B) Recoil
(C) Conceal
(D) Falter

Q515.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Ecstasy
(A) Euphoria
(B) Coarse
(C) Natural
(D) Despair

Q516.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Amicable
(A) Friendly
(B) Proud
(C) Generous
(D) Harsh

Q517.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Crude
(A) Patient
(B) Refined
(C) Primitive
(D) Observant

Q518.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) boring
(B) trivial
(C) wasteful
(D) important

Q519.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) more great
(B) great
(C) greater
(D) greatest

Q520.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) condemn
(B) salvage
(C) reject
(D) discourage

Q521.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Peril
(A) Danger
(B) Entertainment
(C) Joke
(D) Ignorance

Q522.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) focus
(B) contentment
(C) burden
(D) blessing

Q523.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) therapies
(B) diagnosis
(C) analysis
(D) procedures

Q524.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Tedious
(A) Carefree
(B) Hostile
(C) Dynamic
(D) Dreary

Q525.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Fragile
(A) Brittle
(B) Sturdy
(C) Unkempt
(D) Intense

Q526.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) closely
(B) emptily
(C) frankly
(D) lawfully

Q527.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) sleeping
(B) pondering
(C) being
(D) pulling

Q528.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) hamper
(B) trivialise
(C) disturb
(D) deepen

Q529.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) suggesting
(B) advise
(C) suggest
(D) advice

Q530.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Authentic
(A) Moderate
(B) Actual
(C) False
(D) Wise

Q531.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Amiable
(A) Restless
(B) Unfriendly
(C) Sad
(D) Joyful

Q532.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) traits
(B) characters
(C) varieties
(D) uses

Q533.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) watching
(B) wallowing
(C) risking
(D) practising

Q534.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) sourcing
(B) sources
(C) sourced
(D) source

Q535.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Clumsy
(A) Jealous
(B) Fierce
(C) Graceful
(D) Nervous

Q536.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) estranged
(B) guarded
(C) beloved
(D) hated

Q537.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no.4.
(A) outrageous
(B) vulnerable
(C) greasy
(D) mysterious

Q538.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) dozed off
(B) called off
(C) took off
(D) put off

Q539.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) anxiety
(B) agitation
(C) peace
(D) comfort

Q540.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) afar
(B) distant
(C) surrounding
(D) close

Q541.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Peculiar
(A) Neat
(B) Normal
(C) Strange
(D) Jovial

PASSAGE: limit the screen time for children. He says: “Kids are born ________ (3), they’re digital kids now. And it is, I think, important to set some hard rails around it.” Various surveys of Indian children show alarming findings. A Saurashtra University survey of ________ (4) a thousand children and their parents in Rajkot finds that 92% students prefer playing mobile games over playing outside and 78% students ________ (5) to having their phone while having meals. In another survey by Local Circles, nearly 55% of parents admit that their children aged 9-13 have access to a smartphone throughout the day. SubQuestion No : 21
Q542.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) before
(B) behind
(C) by dint of
(D) below

PASSAGE: limit the screen time for children. He says: “Kids are born ________ (3), they’re digital kids now. And it is, I think, important to set some hard rails around it.” Various surveys of Indian children show alarming findings. A Saurashtra University survey of ________ (4) a thousand children and their parents in Rajkot finds that 92% students prefer playing mobile games over playing outside and 78% students ________ (5) to having their phone while having meals. In another survey by Local Circles, nearly 55% of parents admit that their children aged 9-13 have access to a smartphone throughout the day. SubQuestion No : 21
Q543.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) idiotic
(B) sturdy
(C) blurred
(D) nomadic

PASSAGE: limit the screen time for children. He says: “Kids are born ________ (3), they’re digital kids now. And it is, I think, important to set some hard rails around it.” Various surveys of Indian children show alarming findings. A Saurashtra University survey of ________ (4) a thousand children and their parents in Rajkot finds that 92% students prefer playing mobile games over playing outside and 78% students ________ (5) to having their phone while having meals. In another survey by Local Circles, nearly 55% of parents admit that their children aged 9-13 have access to a smartphone throughout the day. SubQuestion No : 21
Q544.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) behind
(B) in front of
(C) above
(D) below

Q545.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Design
(A) Fabricate
(B) Destroy
(C) Inspect
(D) Copy

Q546.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) marginal
(B) elitist
(C) populist
(D) negligible

Q547.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Obvious
(A) Clear
(B) Murky
(C) Ambiguous
(D) Opaque

Q548.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) legacies
(B) powers
(C) awards
(D) visuals

Q549.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 5.
(A) attempts
(B) scenarios
(C) benefits
(D) severity

Q550.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Hazard
(A) Marvel
(B) Miracle
(C) Ardent
(D) Accident

Q551.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) locality
(B) comfort
(C) range
(D) inconvenience

Q552.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Glimpse
(A) Examine
(B) Glance
(C) Stare
(D) Observe

Q553.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Align
(A) Position
(B) Disrupt
(C) Centre
(D) Coincide

Q554.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) principle
(B) method
(C) routine
(D) habit

Q555.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Stern
(A) Stable
(B) Sincere
(C) Profound
(D) Lenient

Q556.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) singing
(B) happy
(C) dancing
(D) weeping

Q557.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 3.
(A) long enough
(B) big enough
(C) not enough
(D) enough of

Q558.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) hamper
(B) hasten
(C) improve
(D) disturb

Q559.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) lawyers
(B) humans
(C) politicians
(D) citizens

Q560.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) visiting
(B) visited
(C) visit
(D) visits

Q561.
Identify the most appropriate meaning of the given word.
Hope
(A) Caution
(B) Realism
(C) Cynicism
(D) Wish

Q562.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Trivial
(A) Minor
(B) Fatal
(C) Decisive
(D) Formal

Q563.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Cheap
(A) Expensive
(B) Ignorant
(C) Old
(D) Untangle

Q564.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) accepted
(B) decided
(C) examined
(D) concluded

Q565.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) figures
(B) glossary
(C) grammar
(D) data

Q566.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) converts
(B) exceeds
(C) crates
(D) bows

Q567.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) interest
(B) duty
(C) concern
(D) charge

Q568.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 3.
(A) followed
(B) sensed
(C) launched
(D) submitted

Q569.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Barbed
(A) Passive
(B) Kind
(C) Gentle
(D) Spiteful

Q570.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) immersed
(B) rich
(C) content
(D) varied

Q571.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) so
(B) rarely
(C) impishly
(D) extremely

Q572.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) desires
(B) whims
(C) feelings
(D) needs

Q573.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) fancied
(B) groped
(C) imbibed
(D) translated

Q574.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Insist
(A) Persist
(B) Resist
(C) Heist
(D) Assist

Q575.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Elegant
(A) Mighty
(B) Graceful
(C) Ugly
(D) Tall

Q576.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) sharing
(B) share
(C) shares
(D) shared

Q577.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) podcasts
(B) images
(C) books
(D) films

Q578.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) example
(B) while
(C) like
(D) instance

Q579.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Grief
(A) Pleasure
(B) Jollity
(C) Pain
(D) Content

Q580.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) slavery
(B) wish
(C) employment
(D) job

Q581.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) next felt
(B) touched
(C) kept
(D) left

Q582.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) traces
(B) undercurrents
(C) calm
(D) violent

Q583.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) relies
(B) creates
(C) hopes
(D) wants

Q584.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) goal
(B) sense
(C) reason
(D) occasion

Q585.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Humane
(A) Proud
(B) Kind
(C) Cruel
(D) Imperfect

Q586.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) chases
(B) throws
(C) threw
(D) chased

Q587.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) crossed
(B) eroded
(C) elapsed
(D) persisted

Q588.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) mugged
(B) muffed
(C) mutilated
(D) muttered

Q589.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Mild
(A) Scathing
(B) Brittle
(C) Gentle
(D) Severe

Q590.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Pretend
(A) Feign
(B) Benign
(C) Align
(D) Reign

Q591.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) optimum
(B) variance
(C) minimum
(D) maximum

Q592.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Annoy
(A) Gratify
(B) Vex
(C) Irritate
(D) Thrill

Q593.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) obey
(B) listen
(C) followed
(D) came

Q594.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 1.
(A) preach
(B) determine
(C) precede
(D) create

Q595.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank no. 3.
(A) still
(B) toward
(C) while
(D) down

Q596.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) process
(B) guess
(C) chaos
(D) area

Q597.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no.5.
(A) closely
(B) frequently
(C) deeply
(D) barely

Q598.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Dense
(A) Sparse
(B) Opaque
(C) Closed
(D) Thick

Q599.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) adjusted
(B) rotated
(C) shook
(D) stirred

Q600.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Plunge
(A) Transgress
(B) Dive
(C) Rush
(D) Fly

Q601.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) burden
(B) mass
(C) weight
(D) power

Q602.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) dribble
(B) straw
(C) fantasy
(D) habitat

Q603.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) resumed
(B) rusted
(C) blocked
(D) stared

Q604.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) think
(B) talk
(C) listen
(D) speak

Q605.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) gnawed
(B) lurched
(C) peeped
(D) crawled

Q606.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) some
(B) enough
(C) many
(D) plenty

Q607.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) grouse
(B) grunt
(C) variance
(D) control

Q608.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Feud
(A) Gross
(B) Peril
(C) Harmony
(D) Vigour

Q609.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Break
(A) Divide
(B) Mend
(C) Split
(D) Breach

PASSAGE: the minority having enormous brains and (1)________ bodies, and the majority with tiny brains and muscular bodies. The size of the average brain will (2)________ diminish; not because of our innate laziness, but because of our over-concern about our physical appearance. In the old days, most people dreamt of having shelter and a stable food supply. As we no longer struggle for the basic (3)________, our dreams focus instead on the search for physical beauty, how to obtain and maintain the ‘ideal body shape’ and healthy life the media promotes. Physical beauty will become the main goal of the majority. They’ll do exercises every day, taking (4)________ to maintain their shape while not noticing that their brains are shrinking. Actually, there is no doubt that they’ll work (5)________ hard to make their brains smaller. SubQuestion No : 21
Q610.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) mad
(B) hungry
(C) tired
(D) angry

PASSAGE: the minority having enormous brains and (1)________ bodies, and the majority with tiny brains and muscular bodies. The size of the average brain will (2)________ diminish; not because of our innate laziness, but because of our over-concern about our physical appearance. In the old days, most people dreamt of having shelter and a stable food supply. As we no longer struggle for the basic (3)________, our dreams focus instead on the search for physical beauty, how to obtain and maintain the ‘ideal body shape’ and healthy life the media promotes. Physical beauty will become the main goal of the majority. They’ll do exercises every day, taking (4)________ to maintain their shape while not noticing that their brains are shrinking. Actually, there is no doubt that they’ll work (5)________ hard to make their brains smaller. SubQuestion No : 21
Q611.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) over
(B) through
(C) around
(D) straight

PASSAGE: the minority having enormous brains and (1)________ bodies, and the majority with tiny brains and muscular bodies. The size of the average brain will (2)________ diminish; not because of our innate laziness, but because of our over-concern about our physical appearance. In the old days, most people dreamt of having shelter and a stable food supply. As we no longer struggle for the basic (3)________, our dreams focus instead on the search for physical beauty, how to obtain and maintain the ‘ideal body shape’ and healthy life the media promotes. Physical beauty will become the main goal of the majority. They’ll do exercises every day, taking (4)________ to maintain their shape while not noticing that their brains are shrinking. Actually, there is no doubt that they’ll work (5)________ hard to make their brains smaller. SubQuestion No : 21
Q612.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) cute
(B) minor
(C) tiny
(D) minute

PASSAGE: the minority having enormous brains and (1)________ bodies, and the majority with tiny brains and muscular bodies. The size of the average brain will (2)________ diminish; not because of our innate laziness, but because of our over-concern about our physical appearance. In the old days, most people dreamt of having shelter and a stable food supply. As we no longer struggle for the basic (3)________, our dreams focus instead on the search for physical beauty, how to obtain and maintain the ‘ideal body shape’ and healthy life the media promotes. Physical beauty will become the main goal of the majority. They’ll do exercises every day, taking (4)________ to maintain their shape while not noticing that their brains are shrinking. Actually, there is no doubt that they’ll work (5)________ hard to make their brains smaller. SubQuestion No : 21
Q613.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) in
(B) around
(C) round
(D) about

PASSAGE: the minority having enormous brains and (1)________ bodies, and the majority with tiny brains and muscular bodies. The size of the average brain will (2)________ diminish; not because of our innate laziness, but because of our over-concern about our physical appearance. In the old days, most people dreamt of having shelter and a stable food supply. As we no longer struggle for the basic (3)________, our dreams focus instead on the search for physical beauty, how to obtain and maintain the ‘ideal body shape’ and healthy life the media promotes. Physical beauty will become the main goal of the majority. They’ll do exercises every day, taking (4)________ to maintain their shape while not noticing that their brains are shrinking. Actually, there is no doubt that they’ll work (5)________ hard to make their brains smaller. SubQuestion No : 21
Q614.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) either
(B) however
(C) neither
(D) also

PASSAGE: the minority having enormous brains and (1)________ bodies, and the majority with tiny brains and muscular bodies. The size of the average brain will (2)________ diminish; not because of our innate laziness, but because of our over-concern about our physical appearance. In the old days, most people dreamt of having shelter and a stable food supply. As we no longer struggle for the basic (3)________, our dreams focus instead on the search for physical beauty, how to obtain and maintain the ‘ideal body shape’ and healthy life the media promotes. Physical beauty will become the main goal of the majority. They’ll do exercises every day, taking (4)________ to maintain their shape while not noticing that their brains are shrinking. Actually, there is no doubt that they’ll work (5)________ hard to make their brains smaller. SubQuestion No : 21
Q615.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) and
(B) since
(C) but
(D) because

PASSAGE: the minority having enormous brains and (1)________ bodies, and the majority with tiny brains and muscular bodies. The size of the average brain will (2)________ diminish; not because of our innate laziness, but because of our over-concern about our physical appearance. In the old days, most people dreamt of having shelter and a stable food supply. As we no longer struggle for the basic (3)________, our dreams focus instead on the search for physical beauty, how to obtain and maintain the ‘ideal body shape’ and healthy life the media promotes. Physical beauty will become the main goal of the majority. They’ll do exercises every day, taking (4)________ to maintain their shape while not noticing that their brains are shrinking. Actually, there is no doubt that they’ll work (5)________ hard to make their brains smaller. SubQuestion No : 21
Q616.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no.3.
(A) rarely
(B) regularly
(C) badly
(D) enough

Q617.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Fame
(A) Name
(B) Shame
(C) Scandal
(D) Stingy

Q618.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) removed
(B) over
(C) through
(D) undone

Q619.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 4.
(A) Similarly
(B) Normally
(C) Finally
(D) Usually

Q620.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 2.
(A) method
(B) matter
(C) stairs
(D) stone

Q621.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 1.
(A) be argues
(B) have argue
(C) argues
(D) argue

Q622.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) it
(B) nothing
(C) everything
(D) all

Q623.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) lose
(B) benefit
(C) reward
(D) enjoy

Q624.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) there
(B) its
(C) that
(D) this

Q625.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 5.
(A) soon
(B) beneficial
(C) bad
(D) confidential

Q626.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) three
(B) four
(C) two
(D) one

Q627.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no.1.
(A) mercy
(B) trend
(C) failure
(D) threat

Q628.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) about
(B) for
(C) with
(D) on

Q629.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 4.
(A) hassle
(B) ease
(C) agony
(D) delay

Q630.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) late
(B) early
(C) active
(D) idle

Q631.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no.2.
(A) keep
(B) build
(C) become
(D) drive

Q632.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) first
(B) second
(C) last
(D) end

Q633.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) with
(B) by
(C) to
(D) for

Q634.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) of
(B) in
(C) from
(D) out

Q635.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) The
(B) That
(C) A
(D) An

Q636.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) towards
(B) on
(C) by
(D) with

Q637.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) in
(B) at
(C) on
(D) off

Q638.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) off
(B) on
(C) aside
(D) for

Q639.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank 2.
(A) will does
(B) has do
(C) does
(D) do

Q640.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) On
(B) Above
(C) Upon
(D) At

Q641.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) us
(B) he
(C) we
(D) it

Q642.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Paraphernalia
(B) Handkerchiefs
(C) Conjuror
(D) Indispensible

Q643.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Recommendation
(B) Priviledge
(C) Affiliate
(D) Parachute

Q644.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Wrestler
(B) Accompanyment
(C) Debatable
(D) Discrepancy

Q645.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Insurance
(B) Assasin
(C) Mischievous
(D) Inexpressible

Q646.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Curiousity
(B) Vehemence
(C) Superficial
(D) Synagogue

Q647.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Adopt
(B) Advertisement
(C) Contantment
(D) Container

Q648.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Wholeness
(B) Overwhelming
(C) Legandry
(D) Inclusive

Q649.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Separate
(B) Accommodate
(C) Definitely
(D) Embarass

Q650.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Parallel
(B) Recommend
(C) Irresistable
(D) Tomorrow

Q651.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Acknowlege
(B) Territory
(C) Excellence
(D) Business

Q652.
Select the correctly spelt word.
(A) Prevenseon
(B) Prevention
(C) Previnsion
(D) Prevension

Q653.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Abhorrent
(B) Jugglary
(C) Gesture
(D) Magnificence

Q654.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Essence
(B) Aggregate
(C) Transmisible
(D) Assembly

Q655.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Omitted
(B) Retrospact
(C) Conscience
(D) Admission

Q656.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Tastimonial
(B) Ballad
(C) Rampant
(D) Beneficiary

Q657.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Sergeant
(B) Playwright
(C) Experiance
(D) Leisure

Q658.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Paralycis
(B) Lyricist
(C) Indigestion
(D) Patron

Q659.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Humorous
(B) Necassery
(C) Apparent
(D) Definite

Q660.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Beginning
(B) Writting
(C) Argument
(D) Amateur

Q661.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Fourty
(B) Committee
(C) Hypnotic
(D) Tennessee

Q662.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Important
(B) Maintanance
(C) Friend
(D) Rhythm

Q663.
Select the correctly spelt word.
(A) Millennium
(B) Milennium
(C) Millenum
(D) Milenium

Q664.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Chivalrous
(B) Expose
(C) Conffess
(D) Convict

Q665.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Perceive
(B) Recognition
(C) Vaccum
(D) Shield

Q666.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Tomatos
(B) Weather
(C) Vehicle
(D) Professor

Q667.
Select the correctly spelt word.
(A) Bihavior
(B) Behavier
(C) Behaviour
(D) Behaveor

Q668.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Grammar
(B) Pleasant
(C) Familiar
(D) Aweful

Q669.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Resist
(B) Rectifie
(C) Recruit
(D) Repulse

Q670.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Rhyme
(B) Relevant
(C) Succesful
(D) Queue
