==============================================================================
FILE      : SSC_CPO_2024_EN.txt
SOURCE PDF: ssc_papers/merged/SSC_CPO_2024_EN.pdf
SUBJECT   : English Language and Comprehension
QUESTIONS : 642
==============================================================================

Q1.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below. While the first and the last sentences
(A and F) are in the correct order, the sentences in between are jumbled up.
Arrange the sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent
paragraph.
A. Through the window of the compartment, I watched the countryside slip past.
B. From a distance, the men in the fields in their white dhotis and turbans and the
womenfolk in
bright splashes of colour against the green background of paddy fields seemed to
inhabit some beautiful painting.
C. Almost everywhere, people were engaged in some activity which had a rhythm
and tranquillity about it—men driving cattle, women fetching water from
streams.
D. It is astonishing how the landscape changes as one moves northwards.
E. Occasionally, a child would appear and wave at the train.
F. The rich and fertile plains of the river Ganga and its numerous tributaries have
invited invasion, turmoil and change.
(A) ECDB
(B) BDEC
(C) CBDE
(D) BCED

Q2.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below. While the first and the last sentences
(A and F) are in the correct order, the sentences in between are jumbled up.
Arrange the sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent
paragraph.
A. On this evening we set out before it was dark, but soon had to rue our haste,
for crossing a slope, we found ourselves in the presence of a number of peasants
planting rice.
B. They were wading half-naked in the muddy water and stared in astonishment
at the sight of two men carrying packs on their backs.
C. After hours of climbing and descending, we at last reached the river Jumna.
D. They pointed to the slope high up on which one could see a village, which
seemed to mean that this was the only way out of the ravine.
E. To avoid awkward questions, we walked straight on, as fast as possible in the
direction indicated.
F. Meanwhile, night had fallen.
(A) ECDB
(B) CBED
(C) BDEC
(D) BCED

Q3.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below. While the first and the last sentences
(A and F) are in the correct order, the sentences in between are jumbled up.
Arrange the sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent
paragraph.
A. Day after day we wandered on with the caravans and pitched our little
mountaineer’s tent alongside theirs.
B. The only thing that disturbed us was the extreme slowness of our progress.
C. We thought ourselves very lucky to be allowed to join the caravans.
D. Compared with our previous marches, we seemed to be gently strolling along.
E. The nomads start early, and after covering three or four miles, pitch their
tents again and send their animals out to graze.
F. Before nightfall they bring them in and fold them near the tents, where they
are safe from wolves and can ruminate in peace.
(A) CBED
(B) ECDB
(C) CBDE
(D) BDEC

Q4.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below. While the first and the last sentences
(A and F) are in the correct order, the sentences in between are jumbled up.
Arrange the sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent
paragraph.
A. As soon as I returned from NASA, India’s first rocket launch took place on 21
November, 1963.
B. The assembled rocket was to be shifted from the church building to the launch
pad.
C. The rocket was assembled in the local church building.
D. The only equipment available to transport the rocket was a truck and a
manually operated hydraulic crane.
E. It was a sounding rocket, called NikeApache, made at NASA.
F. When the rocket was lifted by the crane and was about to be placed on the
launcher, it started tilting, indicating a leak in the hydraulic system of the crane.
(A) BDEC
(B) ECBD
(C) EDBC
(D) CBDE

Q5.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below. While the first and the last sentences
(A and F) are in the correct order, the sentences in between are jumbled up.
Arrange the sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent
paragraph.
A. The clerk drew the book towards him again and began turning over the leaves,
and all at once, as though by chance, lifted his eyes to Voldyrev.
B. “Ah... what do you want?” he asked.
C. His nose began to shine, turned red and wrinkled up in a grin.
D. “With pleasure! The Gugulin case, isn't it? What is it then exactly?”
E. “I want to make an inquiry in reference to my case… My name is Voldyrev.”
F. Voldyrev explained his business.
(A) BDEC
(B) CBED
(C) ECDB
(D) CDBE

Q6.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below. While the first and the last sentences
(A and F) are in the correct order, the sentences in between are jumbled up.
Arrange the sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent
paragraph.
A. I met Swami Sivananda—a man who looked like the Buddha, wearing a snow-
white dhoti and wooden slippers.
B. Before I could speak any further, he inquired about the source of my sorrow.
C. I introduced myself to the Swamiji.
D. My Muslim name aroused no reaction in him.
E. I was struck by his irresistible, almost childlike smile and gracious manner.
F. He offered no explanation of how he knew that I was sad and I did not ask.
(A) BDEC
(B) CBDE
(C) EDBC
(D) ECDB

Q7.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the
sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. By day, he slept in the servants’ kitchen or made jokes with the cooks.
B. At night, wrapped in an ample sheepskin, he walked round the grounds and
tapped with his little mallet.
C. Vanka raised his eyes to the dark picture on which the light of his candle was
reflected and vividly recalled his grandfather, Konstantin Makaritch, who was a
night watchman to a family called Zhivarev.
D. He was a thin but extraordinarily nimble and lively little old man of sixty-five,
with an everlastingly laughing face and drunken eyes.
(A) BDAC
(B) CADB
(C) ACBD
(D) CDAB

Q8.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below. While the first and the last sentences
(A and F) are in the correct order, the sentences in between are jumbled up.
Arrange the sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent
paragraph.
A. The child stood dreamily gazing.
B. After a while, a little dark-brown dog came trotting down the sidewalk.
C. The child put out his hand and called him.
D. He stopped opposite the child, and the two regarded each other.
E. The dog hesitated for a moment, but presently he made little advances with his
tail.
F. In an apologetic manner the dog came close, and the two had an interchange of
friendly patting and waggles.
(A) BDEC
(B) DBCE
(C) ECDB
(D) CBED

Q9.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below. While the first and the last sentences
(A and F) are in the correct order, the sentences in between are jumbled up.
Arrange the sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent
paragraph.
A. Till a few years back, I did not have a driver, and used to drive everywhere
myself.
B. Some Saturdays I would take my car to that service station and stay there
until it was serviced.
C. The petrol pump where I filled petrol from had a service station beside it.
D. There were two boys, perhaps fourteen years of age, who worked there.
E. They were identical twins.
F. One was called Ram and the other one was Gopal.
(A) ECDB
(B) BDEC
(C) CBED
(D) CBDE

Q10.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the
sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. He spoke very good English, 'Exactly like a "European"', which meant that few
in the school could understand what he said.
B. Many of his classmates could not trust themselves to speak to him, their fund
of broken English being small.
C. There were vague rumours in the school that Rajam had come from some
English boys’ school somewhere in Madras.
D. Only Sankar, the genius of the class, had the courage to face him, though his
English sounded halting and weak before that of Rajam.
(A) ACBD
(B) CABD
(C) CDBA
(D) BDAC

Q11.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the
sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. Gryabov, a large stout man, with a very big head, was sitting on the sand,
angling, with his legs tucked under him like a Turk.
B. Otsov thought a little, and then went to the river to look for Gryabov.
C. His hat was on the back of his head, and his cravat had slipped on one side.
D. Going down to the river, he found him a mile and a half from the house.
(A) ACDB
(B) CBAD
(C) BDAC
(D) BCAD

Q12.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the
sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. One day, I was travelling by train from Bangalore to Belgaum.
B. I was travelling by second class as that’s where one can meet lots of people
who are eager to talk.
C. It is an overnight train and the only rail link between Bangalore and north
Karnataka.
D. I have noticed, the more expensive the ticket, the lesser the co-travellers
speak.
(A) DBAC
(B) ADBC
(C) CBAD
(D) ACBD

Q13.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the
sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. I was often invited to colleges and universities to deliver lectures.
B. After it was over, students gathered to ask some questions.
C. Once, I went to a university to deliver a lecture.
D. Though it was getting late for my next programme, since I love talking to
students, I remained there answering their questions.
(A) ACBD
(B) ADBC
(C) DBAC
(D) CBAD

Q14.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the
sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. Back home, Bipin Babu rang up Dr. Chanda and asked him to come over.
B. Just then, the servant brought him a letter which someone had left in the
letter box.
C. Then, after a shower, he got into bed with an ice bag clamped on his head.
D. It was a greenish envelope with his name in red ink on it.
(A) ACBD
(B) CBAD
(C) ADBC
(D) DBAC

Q15.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the
sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. Mother came in with a tumbler of water in one hand and a plate of betel leaves
and nuts in the other.
B. She gave him the areca-nut and half a dozen neatly rolled betel leaves.
C. He put them all into his mouth, chewing them with great contentment.
D. Father drank the water and held out his hand.
(A) ACBD
(B) ADBC
(C) DBAC
(D) CBAD

Q16.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence to make it a meaningful sentence. If no substitution is required, select ‘No
substitution’.
The quality of students of an educational institute is of great importance and a crucial
starting point.
(A) The quality of students in an educational institute is in great importance and a crucial starting point.
(B) The quality of students in an educational institute is of great importance and a crucial starting point.
(C) No substitution
(D) The quality of students in an educational institute is of great importance and is a crucial start point.

Q17.
Sentences of a paragraph are given below in jumbled order. Arrange the
sentences in the correct order to form a meaningful and coherent paragraph.
A. I was struck by the objectivity and clarity of his thinking.
B. The next day, Dr. Mediratta brought a visitor to our hovercraft—a tall,
handsome, bearded man.
C. “Can you give me a ride in the machine?” he finally enquired.
D. He asked me several questions about the machine.
(A) BDAC
(B) BCAD
(C) ACDB
(D) CBAD

Q18.
Select the most appropriate option with correct usage of the preposition to substitute
the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The Centre of Excellence for Data Analytics (CEDA) provides quality data analytic
services to various government departments on all levels as well as to public sector
units at the Centre and in states.
(A) various government departments through all levels
(B) various government departments from all levels
(C) various government departments in all levels
(D) various government departments at all levels

Q19.
Three segments of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options.
One of them may contain an error. Select the option that contains the error. If you
don’t find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
Although there is no proven data, the Centre for Policy Research estimate that India
has the largest stock of iron ore in the world.
(A) Although there is no proven data
(B) Centre for Policy Research estimate
(C) No error
(D) India has the largest stock

Q20.
Parts of the given sentence have been underlined. One of them contains an error.
Select the option that has the segment with a grammatical error.
The art historian argued that the painting's value has been greatly underestimated,
and that its unique style and technique deserved recognition from the art community
and the public alike.
(A) its unique style and technique
(B) has been greatly underestimated
(C) recognition from the art community
(D) and the public alike

Q21.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
The work of laying the optical fibre will have been completed by the time you
reach back home tonight.
(A) The labourers have completed the work of laying the optical fibre by the time you reach back home tonight.
(B) The labourers will complete the work of laying the optical fibre by the time you reach back home tonight
(C) The labourers will have completed the work of laying the optical fibre by the time you reach back home tonight.
(D) The labourers will be completing the work of laying the optical fibre by the time you reach back home tonight

Q22.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.
Mary said to Sunanda, “Please send the report by the end of the day. I need to
forward it to the client.”
(A) Mary requested Sunanda to send the report by the end of the day as she needed to forward that to the client.
(B) Mary ordered Sunanda to send the report by the end of the day as she needs to forward it to the client.
(C) Mary told Sunanda that send the report by the end of the day. I need to forward it to the client.
(D) Mary told Sunanda to send the report by the end of the day as she was going to forward that to the client.

Q23.
Three segments of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options.
One of them may contain an error. Select the option that contains the error. If you
don’t find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
Since his son has not yet completed the age of eighteen, he was reluctant to fulfil his
son’s demand of getting a motorbike.
(A) of getting a motorbike
(B) No error
(C) to fulfil his son’s demand
(D) he was reluctant

Q24.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Under Alauddin Khalji, the state brought the collection of land revenue under its
own control.
(A) Under Alauddin Khalji, the collection of land revenue was brought under its own control by the state.
(B) Under Alauddin Khalji, the collection of land revenue was being brought under its own control by the state.
(C) Under Alauddin Khalji, the collection of land revenue was to be brought under its own control by the state.
(D) Under Alauddin Khalji, the collection of land revenue had been brought under its own control by the state.

Q25.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
Isha told Nitya that she could get her suit stitched at her shop and that it would
be convenient for her.
(A) Isha said to Nitya, “She could get her suit stitched at her shop and that it would be convenient for her.”
(B) Isha said to Nitya, “You can get her suit stitched at my shop. It would be convenient for you.”
(C) Isha said to Nitya, “You can get your suit stitched at my shop. It will be convenient for you.”
(D) Isha said to Nitya, “You could get your suit stitched at her shop. It will be convenient for her.”

Q26.
Three segments of the following sentence have been underlined and given as options.
One of them may contain an error. Select the option that contains the error. If you
don’t find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
When my father will come, I will make sure that I discuss the possibilities of a new
business venture with him.
(A) No error
(B) I discuss the possibilities
(C) When my father will come
(D) I will make sure

Q27.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution’.
Inspite mother’s milk is vital to a child’s health, a number of FMCG companies wrongly
advertise artificially prepared infant formulas as being the best for the child.
(A) Mother’s milk
(B) No substitution
(C) Though mother’s milk
(D) Despite mother’s milk

Q28.
Select the sentence that has the correct use of words and spellings from the options
given below.
(A) The skilled surgeon delicatly performed the intricate procedure, saving the patient's life with his stedy hands and unwavering focus.
(B) The skilled surgeon delicately performed the intrecate procedure, saving the patient's life with his steady hands and unwavering focus.
(C) The skiled surgeon delicatly performed the intricate procedure, saving the patient's life with his stedy hands and unwavering focus.
(D) The skilled surgeon delicately performed the intricate procedure, saving the patient's life with his steady hands and unwavering focus.

Q29.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Paul Goldstein, a wildlife photographer, took this photo in Kenya's Masai Mara
National Park.
(A) This photo was taken by Paul Goldstein, a wildlife photographer, in Kenya's Masai Mara National Park.
(B) Kenya’s Masai Mara National Park was taken in this photo by Paul Goldstein, a wildlife photographer.
(C) Paul Goldstein, a wildlife photographer was taken by Masai Mara National Park in this photo in Kenya.
(D) This photo has taken Paul Goldstein, a wildlife photographer, in Kenya's Masai Mara National Park.

Q30.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an
error. Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t
find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
The Pench Tiger Reserve is / one of India's premier tiger reserve / and the first to
span two states.
(A) The Pench Tiger Reserve is
(B) one of India's premier tiger reserve
(C) No error
(D) and the first to span two states

Q31.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
The teacher told the children to draw the diagram of water cycle after they had
finished writing.
(A) The teacher said to the children, “Draw the diagram of water cycle after they had finished writing.”
(B) The teacher said, “Children, draw the diagram of water cycle after you have finished writing.”
(C) The teacher said to the children, “Now draw the diagram of water cycle after finishing writing.”
(D) The teacher said, “Children, you may draw the diagram of water cycle after you have finished writing.”

Q32.
Select the sentence that has the correct use of words and spellings from the options
given below.
(A) The scientiest meticulously analysed the complex data, uncovering ground-breaking insights that would revolutionice the field.
(B) The scientist meticulusly analysed the complex data, uncovering ground-breaking insights that would revaulutionise the field.
(C) The scientist meticulously anelysed the complex data, uncovering ground-breaking insights that would revolutionise the feild.
(D) The scientist meticulously analysed the complex data, uncovering ground-breaking insights that would revolutionise the field.

Q33.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment
that contains a grammatical error.
The Calcutta High Court ordered / the formation of a special investigation team
/ probing the attack on / Enforcement Directorate officials in West Bengal.
(A) the formation of a special investigation team
(B) The Calcutta High Court ordered
(C) Enforcement Directorate officials in West Bengal
(D) probing the attack on

Q34.
Identify the error in the verb form in the following sentence and choose the correct
sentence from the given options (Present Tense).
The committee work diligently to ensure fair and unbiased decision.
(A) The committee is work diligently to ensure fair and unbiased decision.
(B) The committee works diligently to ensure fair and unbiased decision.
(C) The committee has work diligently to ensure fair and unbiased decision.
(D) The committee worked diligently to ensure fair and unbiased decision.

Q35.
In the question four alternatives are given for the underlined word in the sentence.
Choose the alternative which best expresses the opposite meaning of the word.
We embraced each other overjoyed at our success, then I took photograph of Tenzing
holding aloft the flags of Great Britain, Nepal, the United Nations and India.”
(A) Cradled
(B) Junked
(C) Contained
(D) Limited

Q36.
Select the most appropriate option with correct usage of the preposition to substitute
the underlined segment in the given sentence.
The core part in Artificial Intelligence (AI) is knowledge engineering, machine learning,
machine perception, and robotics.
(A) The core part on Artificial Intelligence
(B) The core part of Artificial Intelligence
(C) The core part from Artificial Intelligence
(D) The core part with Artificial Intelligence

Q37.
Read the following line from the passage and select the most appropriate option that
describes it :
Considering that facial recognition is almost instant, it offers a quick and successful
verification of a person.
(A) Face recognition is uneasy and verifies a person successfully.
(B) Face recognition is easy and verifies a person unsuccessfully.
(C) Face recognition is not on spot and verifies a person partly.
(D) Face recognition is fast and verifies a person successfully.

Q38.
Select the sentence that has the correct use of words and spellings from the options
given below.
(A) The profesional athlete pushed her body to the limit, surpassing all expectations and acheiving a new personal record.
(B) The profesional athlete pushed her body to the limit, surpasing all expectasions and achieving a new personal record.
(C) The professional athlete pushed her body to the limit, surpasing all expectations and acheving a new personal record.
(D) The professional athlete pushed her body to the limit, surpassing all expectations and achieving a new personal record.

Q39.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
Alex expressed uncertainty regarding his ability to meet the complex
requirements of the project.
(A) Alex said, “The requirements of the project are complex enough to be handled.”
(B) Alex said, “I am uncertain to meet the complex requirements of the project.”
(C) Alex said, “I’m sure I won’t be able to meet the complex requirements of the project.”
(D) Alex said, “I’m not sure if I can meet the complex requirements of the project.”

Q40.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an
error. Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t
find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
The police had lot evidence / against him to take him / into their custody.
(A) against him to take him
(B) into their custody
(C) No error
(D) The police had lot evidence

Q41.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment
that contains a grammatical error.
The 2023 report reveals that / children in India continue / to struggle on basic
reading and arithmetic skills / well into their teenage years.
(A) children in India continue
(B) The 2023 report reveals that
(C) to struggle on basic reading and arithmetic skills
(D) well into their teenage years

Q42.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.
Kavya said to her mother, “Do you know that we got our school magazine today?”
(A) Kavya asked her mother that do you know that we got our school magazine today.
(B) Kavya asked her mother if she would be knowing that they had got their school magazine that day.
(C) Kavya asked her mother if she had known that they got their school magazine today.
(D) Kavya asked her mother if she knew that they had got their school magazine that day.

Q43.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option
that contains an error.
The Survey showed that across most tasks that test the ability to apply basic
numeracy and reading skills, Primary school boys did best than girls.
(A) basic numeracy and reading skills
(B) that test the ability to apply
(C) Primary school boys did best than girls
(D) The Survey showed that across most tasks

Q44.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. One of them may
contain an error. Select the part that contains the error from the given options.
If you don’t find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
We have not received some information from our coast guards yet.
(A) We have not received
(B) No error
(C) our coast guards yet
(D) some information from

Q45.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Visitors can scale the massive rock by climbing the 708-step path up to the top.
(A) The massive rock be scaled by visitors by climbing the 708-step path up to the top.
(B) The massive rock can scaled by visitors by climbing the 708-step path up to the top.
(C) The massive rock scaled visitors by climbing the 708-step path up to the top.
(D) The massive rock can be scaled by visitors by climbing the 708-step path up to the top.

Q46.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
Mr. Prakash asked Rajesh if he wanted to work as an accountant for his company.
(A) Mr. Prakash said to Rajesh, “Do you want to work as an accountant for my company?”
(B) Mr. Prakash said to Rajesh, “Would you want to work as an accountant for my company?”
(C) Mr. Prakash said to Rajesh, “Does he want to work as an accountant for his company?”
(D) Mr. Prakash said to Rajesh, “Why don’t you work as an accountant for my company?”

Q47.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
By the time I reaching / the metro station, / the train had departed.
(A) no error
(B) the metro station
(C) the train had departed
(D) By the time I reaching

Q48.
Identify the proper explanation of the error in the given sentence.
Mohan insisted to go there.
(A) Error is with the tense. The correct sentence should read like this: Mohan insisting to go there.
(B) Error is in the sentence formation. Preposition and gerund are required. The correct sentence should read like this: Mohan insisted on going there.
(C) Error is with the verb. The correct sentence should read like this: Mohan insist to going there.
(D) Error is with the preposition. The correct sentence should read like this: Mohan insisted go there.

Q49.
The following sentence has an error in its tense. Identify the error and select the
correct sentence from the given options.
I will be arrange all the necessary materials for the programme.
(A) I was arrange all the necessary materials for the programme.
(B) I would arranging all the necessary materials for the programme.
(C) I is arrange all the necessary materials for the programme.
(D) I will be arranging all the necessary materials for the programme.

Q50.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option
that contains an error.
Apart with eco-tourism activities and jungle safaris, the Pench Tiger Reserve is
gearing up to introduce stargazing experiences for tourists.
(A) to introduce
(B) Apart with eco-tourism activities and jungle safaris
(C) the Pench Tiger Reserve is gearing up
(D) stargazing experiences for tourists

Q51.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
The manager, decided at last to bring the stenographer to book for her illegal money
transactions after trying to ignore it several times.
(A) bring her for a detailed investigation
(B) take her into great confidence
(C) place her in a safe supportive position
(D) make her accountable for her conduct

Q52.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
She can speak fluently in French, German and Italian; her linguistic skills are
impressing.
(A) No improvement required
(B) her linguistic skills are impressed
(C) her linguistic skills are impressive
(D) her linguistical skills are impressing

Q53.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. One of them may
contain an error. Select the part that contains the error from the given options.
If you don’t find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
The government has declared a public holiday at Monday.
(A) holiday at Monday
(B) The government has
(C) No error
(D) declared a public

Q54.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an
error. Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t
find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
The carpenter work / on that table / from morning to evening.
(A) No error
(B) on that table
(C) The carpenter work
(D) from morning to evening

Q55.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
The construction of the trans-harbour link have shorten a travel time between
Mumbai and Navi Mumbai.
(A) has shortened the travel time
(B) have shorten the traveling time
(C) has shorten a travel time
(D) No improvement required

Q56.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If no substitution is required, select ‘No substitution’.
A sharp fall in the price of jute have led the poor jute farmers to the brink of starvation.
(A) have lead the poor jute farmers
(B) have led the poor farmers
(C) has led the poor jute farmers
(D) No substitution

Q57.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. One of them may
contain an error. Select the part that contains the error from the given options.
If you don’t find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
Everything happened such quickly that I felt dazed.
(A) such quickly that
(B) Everything happened
(C) No error
(D) I felt dazed

Q58.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. One of them contains an
error. Select the segment that contains the error from the given options.
Last night I dreamed that / I am looking for the/ abominable snowman high / up in the
Himalayas.
(A) abominable snowman high
(B) up in the Himalayas
(C) I am looking for the
(D) Last night I dreamed that

Q59.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution’.
This is the group of leaders in whom the ruling government has placed its trust.
(A) no substitution
(B) in who the ruling government
(C) with who the ruling government
(D) on who the ruling government

Q60.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. One of them may
contain an error. Select the part that contains the error from the given options.
If you don’t find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
Nobody in the office is satisfied with your work.
(A) Nobody in the office
(B) is satisfied
(C) No error
(D) with your work

Q61.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
When Ramu was working / as a clerk, / he asked me money.
(A) When Ramu was working
(B) as a clerk
(C) No error
(D) he asked me money

Q62.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
The construction of the tunnel has been completed by the Public Works
Department.
(A) The construction of the tunnel has completed the Public Works Department.
(B) The Public Works Department has completed the construction of the tunnel.
(C) The Public Works Department is completing the construction of the tunnel.
(D) The Public Works Department completed the construction of the tunnel.

Q63.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
The teacher said that Ashoka had converted to Buddhism after the Kalinga War.
(A) The teacher said, “Ashoka had converted to Buddhism after the Kalinga War.”
(B) The teacher said, “Ashoka converted to Buddhism after the Kalinga War.”
(C) The teacher says, “Ashoka converted to Buddhism after the Kalinga War.”
(D) The teacher said, “Ashoka was converted to Buddhism after the Kalinga War.”

Q64.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t find any
error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
I had done / my cooking when / Vishnu came to see me.
(A) No error
(B) I had done
(C) Vishnu came to see me
(D) my cooking when

Q65.
Select the most appropriate segment to substitute the underlined words in the given
sentence.
The referee declared that the participant who will score the highest points in the tally
will take away the cash prize of ₹50 lakh.
(A) who can score the highest point
(B) who scores the highest point
(C) who could score the highest point
(D) who settles scores the highest point

Q66.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the given situation focusing on the underlined
words.
I invited them to my anniversary dinner but they had other plans, so they decided to
politely decline with the implication that they may come at a later date.
(A) To spoil a moment
(B) To take a rain check
(C) Call it a day
(D) Took it with a grain of salt

Q67.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them may contain an
error. Select the part that contains the error from the given options. If you don’t
find any error, mark ‘No error’ as your answer.
My flight is scheduled / to take off / on 6:30 p.m.
(A) My flight is scheduled
(B) to take off
(C) on 6:30 p.m.
(D) No error

Q68.
Choose the correct option to convert the following active voice sentence into
passive voice.
He gathered the men and brought the priest to witness the death.
(A) The men were gathered and the priest was brought by him to witness the death.
(B) He had the death witnessed by gathering and bringing the priest.
(C) He has the death witnessed by gathering and bringing the priest.
(D) The priest was brought by the men and witnessed the death.

Q69.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
Our team has been invited by the National High School to play hockey with them.
(A) The National High School is inviting our team to play hockey with them.
(B) The National High School has invited our team to play hockey with them.
(C) The National High School invited our team to play hockey with them.
(D) Our team has invited the National High School to play hockey with them.

Q70.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution’.
Half of the property given to his sons by the businessman last year.
(A) No substitution
(B) Half of the property is given
(C) Half of the property was given
(D) Half of the property has been given

Q71.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option
that contains an error.
Whether you are seeking solitude or adventure, India’s lesser-known coastal
destinations are offering something for everyone.
(A) solitude or adventure
(B) India’s lesser-known coastal destinations
(C) are offering something for everyone
(D) Whether you are seeking

Q72.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
The MLA said that they planned to make that area a safe place to live in.
(A) The MLA said, “We are planning to make this area a safe place to live in.”
(B) The MLA said, “We plan to make this area a safe place to live in.”
(C) The MLA said, “They have planned to make this area a safe place to live in.”
(D) The MLA said, “They planned to make this area a safe place to live in.”

Q73.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.
“We can’t believe we won the competition!” they said with joy.
(A) They exclaimed with joy that they can't believe they won the competition.
(B) They exclaimed with joy that we couldn't believe we had won the competition.
(C) They exclaimed with joy that they couldn't believe they had won the competition.
(D) They exclaimed with joy that they couldn't believe they won the competition.

Q74.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
There is a new restaurant opening downtown who sells exotic Chinese cuisine.
(A) who is selling exotic Chinese cuisine
(B) No improvement required
(C) who sell exotic Chinese cuisine
(D) which sells exotic Chinese cuisine

Q75.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
The doctor told the patient that she needed to rest and avoid stress.
(A) The doctor said to the patient, "You would have needed to rest and avoid stress."
(B) The doctor said to the patient, "You need to rest and avoid stress."
(C) The doctor said to the patient, "You needed to rest and avoid stress."
(D) The doctor said to the patient, "You will need to rest and avoid stress."

Q76.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
The children in this school are required to learn a third language besides Hindi
and English.
(A) are requiring to learn
(B) No improvement required
(C) were require to learning
(D) are required learning

Q77.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
People with Alzheimer are such forgetting as they are not able to carry out a
conversation for long.
(A) so forgetful that
(B) No improvement required
(C) so forgetting that
(D) such forgetful as

Q78.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
He was too exhausted to continue, but he refused to admit defeat and decides to
keep going.
(A) is deciding to keep going
(B) decided to keep going
(C) No improvement required
(D) has decide to keep going

Q79.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
No sooner had she finished her breakfast that she had received a phone call from her
boss, informing her that she needed to come to work immediately.
(A) that she received
(B) that she receives
(C) than she receives
(D) than she received

Q80.
Select the sentence that has the correct use of words and spellings from the options
given below.
(A) The delicius aroma of freshely baked cookies wafted through the kitchen, making mouths water.
(B) The delicious arauma of freshely baked cookes wafted through the kitchen, making mouths water.
(C) The delicious aroma of freshly baked cookies wafted through the kitchen, making mouths water.
(D) The delicious arauma of freshly baked cookies waftad through the kitchen, making mouths water.

Q81.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
In Brazil, the economy has started recovering, but unemployment is on its lowest
from 2015.
(A) is at its lowest since
(B) No improvement required
(C) has been on its low from
(D) is at its lowest from

Q82.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.
Amanda said to the artist, “This face does not look like my sister’s.”
(A) Amanda told the artist that this face does not look like my sister’s.
(B) Amanda told the artist that that face had not looked like her sister’s.
(C) Amanda told the artist that that face was not looking like her sister’s.
(D) Amanda told the artist that that face did not look like her sister’s.

Q83.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
The judge asked the lawyer whether he was ready to question the witness.
(A) The judge said to the lawyer, “Will you be ready to question the witness?”
(B) The judge said to the lawyer, “Why don’t you question the witness?”
(C) The judge said to the lawyer, “Are you ready to question the witness?”
(D) The judge said to the lawyer, “Do you want to question the witness?”

Q84.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence and select the option that
rectifies the spelling error.
Thousands of years ago, great masters of Ayurveda, notebly Sushrut and Charaka,
discussed in detail the use of spices for culinary and medical purpose.
(A) Parpose
(B) Notably
(C) Discused
(D) Cullinary

Q85.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
The selection of these books for the library has been made by a committee.
(A) A committee has made the selection of these books for the library.
(B) A committee is making the selection of these books for the library.
(C) A committee will make the selection of these books for the library.
(D) A committee has been making the selection of these books for the library.

Q86.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence and select the option that
rectifies the spelling error.
The idea is to encourage tourism and allow visitors to enjoy the spectacular Rockies,
but to ensure that it is done in hermony with the environment.
(A) Enssure
(B) Harmony
(C) Encaurage
(D) Touresm

Q87.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. One of them contains an
error. Select the segment that contains the error from the given options.
The people of / Jammu and Kashmir / has emphasised and / appreciated transparency.
(A) appreciated transparency
(B) The people of
(C) has emphasised and
(D) Jammu and Kashmir

Q88.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
By the end of the last year, he would have completed the design of his
multipurpose agri-machine.
(A) has completed
(B) had completed
(C) No improvement required
(D) would complete

Q89.
In the question four alternatives are given for the underlined word in the sentence.
Choose the alternative which best expresses the opposite meaning of the word.
“Well, what if it is? You are not afraid of anything, you know,” returned the boy,
looking wicked.
(A) Clean
(B) Evil
(C) Righteous
(D) Improper

Q90.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment
that contains a grammatical error.
Professor Gupta is an authority / on income tax because / he cannot exercise /
any authority over his family.
(A) he cannot exercise
(B) any authority over his family
(C) on income tax because
(D) Professor Gupta is an authority

Q91.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
October has four consecutive holidays but we are planning a trip to Andaman
Islands
(A) so we are planning
(B) since we have planned
(C) No improvement required
(D) because we are planning

Q92.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
Avika requested Kavya not to make noise as it disturbed her sleep.
(A) Avika said to Kavya,” Do not make noise. It disturbs my sleep.”
(B) Avika said to Kavya, “Can you stop making noise? It disturbs my sleep.”
(C) Avika said to Kavya, “Please do not make noise. It disturbs my sleep.”
(D) Avika told Kavya, “Please do not make noise. It disturbs her sleep.”

Q93.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
She told me that she had loved the outing with me the previous evening.
(A) She said to me, “I love the outing with me last evening.”
(B) She said to me, “She had loved the outing with me the previous evening.”
(C) She said to me, “I loved the outing with you last evening.”
(D) She said to me, “She has loved the outing with you the previous evening.”

Q94.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
He speaks English good enough to communicate with foreign clients.
(A) He speaks English better enough
(B) No improvement required
(C) He speaks English well enough
(D) He is speaking English good enough

Q95.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
The guard said that his family had gone to his village the previous week.
(A) The guard said, “My family had gone to my village the previous week.”
(B) The guard said, “His family went to his village the previous week.”
(C) The guard said, “My family went to my village last week.”
(D) The guard said, “My family was going to my village last week.”

Q96.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence and complete the sentence correctly.
It is important to take this opportunity to make a name for yourself – beat around the
bush.
(A) strike while the iron is hot
(B) fight tooth and claw
(C) pass with flying colours
(D) bare the foot

Q97.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution’.
If I was very rich, I would spend all my time and money for the poor.
(A) No substitution
(B) If I were very rich
(C) If I have much riches
(D) If I am very rich

Q98.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Though Kalpana listened to Sheetal carefully, she knew that she should take it with a
grain of salt.
(A) accept it as really useful and worthy
(B) move according to the trend
(C) regard it as exaggerated and not completely true
(D) be do it meticulously as taking salt

Q99.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a spelling error.
The precarious case of juvenile / deliquency against him / was dismissed by the / jury
in the first hearing.
(A) The precarious case of juvenile
(B) jury in the first hearing.
(C) deliquency against him
(D) was dismissed by the

Q100.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
The students were scolded for not completing the homework.
(A) The teacher was scolding the students for not completing the homework.
(B) The teacher has been scolding the students for not completing the homework.
(C) The teacher scolded the students for not completing the homework.
(D) The teacher has scolded the students for not completing the homework.

Q101.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment
that contains a grammatical error.
This incredible discovery / unfolding the history / of a time that existed / long
before human existence.
(A) unfolding the history
(B) long before human existence
(C) This incredible discovery
(D) of a time that existed

Q102.
In the following question a statement has been given with highlighted text. You are
required to replace the text with correct phrase given in the options.
His intriguing mastery of the English language allowed him to write eloquently.
(A) wellness known skill
(B) least known talent
(C) captivating expertise
(D) master

Q103.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution’.
If his father will give money, he will buy a sports bike.
(A) No substitution
(B) If his father give money
(C) If his father gave money
(D) If his father gives money

Q104.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
Me and my friends planning a road trip to the beach this weekend.
(A) Me and my friends have plan
(B) No improvement required
(C) I and my friends are planned
(D) My friends and I are planning

Q105.
Select the most suitable expression that can substitute the underlined part of the
sentence without any change in meaning.
Planning to go for a movie just before the final-year examination is nothing but skating
on thin ice.
(A) doing hard work
(B) being in a risky situation
(C) enjoying the moment
(D) going to hill stations

Q106.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
Despite of the heavy rain, we decided to go for a hike in the mountains.
(A) Despite of a heavy rain
(B) No improvement required
(C) Despite the heavy rain
(D) In spite the heavy rain

Q107.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.
“I love the smell of fresh flowers in the morning,” she said.
(A) She said that I love the smell of fresh flowers in the morning.
(B) She said that she loves the smell of fresh flowers in the morning.
(C) She says that she loved the smell of fresh flowers in the morning.
(D) She said that she loved the smell of fresh flowers in the morning.

Q108.
Which of the following statements is NOT true according to the passage?
(A) Cultivation of organic variety of Dehraduni Basmati rice is being revived by Dhananjai Mohan.
(B) The cultivation of Dehraduni Basmati rice started declining way back in 1997 with shrinking fields in major cultivation areas.
(C) Dehraduni Basmati rice has a slight sweet taste and a distinct scented flavour, akin to sandalwood and flowers
(D) Dehraduni Basmati rice is non-waxy and non-glutinous.

Q109.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
Mr Sharma has been working since five years in this company as Senior
Accountant.
(A) No improvement required
(B) works for
(C) has worked since
(D) has been working for

Q110.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The company launched a new product in the market yesterday.
(A) A new product has launched in the market by the company yesterday.
(B) A new product was launching in the market by the company yesterday.
(C) A new company was launched in the market by the product yesterday.
(D) A new product was launched in the market by the company yesterday.

Q111.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The secretary does not answer the phone after office hours.
(A) The phone is not answered by the secretary after office hours.
(B) The phone is not been answered by the secretary after office hours.
(C) The phone will not be answered by the secretary after office hours.
(D) The phone has not been answered by the secretary after office hours.

Q112.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
I sometimes accept excess work to please my manager, so I take more responsibilities
than one can manage.
(A) bite off more than I can chew
(B) get a taste of my own medicine
(C) burn my boats
(D) hear it straight from the horse’s mouth

Q113.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
Neha requested her mother to let her rest as she was very tired.
(A) Neha said to her mother, “Can you let me rest? I am very tired.”
(B) Neha said to her mother, “Please let me rest. I was very tired.”
(C) Neha said to her mother, “Please let me rest. I am very tired.”
(D) Neha told her mother, “Please let her rest. I am very tired.”

Q114.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical/spelling error.
The sons of the old farmer / fell off after their father / breathed his last / in the village.
(A) in the village.
(B) breathed his last
(C) The sons of the old farmer
(D) fell off after their father

Q115.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. One of them contains an
error. Select the segment that contains the error from the given options.
I am understanding;/ you like her/ because she has /a generous nature.
(A) you like her
(B) I am understanding
(C) a generous nature
(D) because she has

Q116.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
It is a cheap reasonably / restaurant in this part of the town / where you can eat /
delicious food.
(A) delicious food
(B) restaurant in this part of the town
(C) It is a cheap reasonably
(D) where you can eat

Q117.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If no substitution is required, select ‘No substitution’.
Not a word didn’t they speak to the others about the sad turn of events.
(A) did they speak
(B) No substitution
(C) do they speak
(D) had they speak

Q118.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
Will the Lohri function be organised in your lawns this year?
(A) Will you be organising the Lohri function in your lawns this year?
(B) Will you have organised the Lohri function in your lawns this year?
(C) Will you organise your lawns in the Lohri function this year?
(D) Will you organise the Lohri function in your lawns this year?

Q119.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
You ought cut out your consumption of fats if you want to reduce your weight.
(A) ought to cut down
(B) No improvement required
(C) ought cut down
(D) must cut out

Q120.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
A vicious cycle
(A) a situation in which one problem causes another one, making the original problem impossible to solve.
(B) a situation in which one problem causes another one, making the first one easy to solve.
(C) a situation in which one problem creates another one, making the original problem easy to forget.
(D) a situation in which several problems merge and become one extremely complex problem.

Q121.
Which of the following statements indicates that some company officials were
carrying on dishonest practices for their own benefit?
(A) They refused to pay duty to Bengal on their own private trades.
(B) They acquired the right to mint coins.
(C) They tried continuously to press for more concessions.
(D) They bribed the Mughal officials into giving the Company zamindari rights over three villages.

Q122.
Select the word segment that can substitute the bracketed word segment correctly
and complete the sentence meaningfully.
The minister promised to provide free laptops to the public if his (party came in
power).
(A) party loses the election
(B) he loses the election
(C) party forms the government
(D) he comes to a party

Q123.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
She said that she was going to the store to buy some groceries.
(A) She said, “She was going to the store to buy some groceries.”
(B) She said, “She will be going to the store to buy some groceries.”
(C) She told, “I am going to the store to buy some groceries.”
(D) She said, “I am going to the store to buy some groceries.”

Q124.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.
The manager said, "I will give you a raise next month."
(A) The manager said that he would give me a raise the next month.
(B) The manager said that I would have gotten a raise the next month.
(C) The manager said that he would have given me a raise the next month.
(D) The manager said that I would get a raise the next month.

Q125.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that
has a grammatical error.
When he resigned, / the company offered him / a huge sum of money but / he refused
to agree to it.
(A) a huge sum of money but
(B) When he resigned
(C) he refused to agree to it.
(D) the company offered him

Q126.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
Your application has been accepted if you fulfil all the conditions.
(A) will be accepted
(B) No improvement required
(C) had been accepted
(D) was being accepted

Q127.
Select the word from the sentence below, which is an antonym for the word ‘advance’.
Clive is a travel blogger who believes that with even an elementary or intermediate
Knowledge of the local language, you can enjoy your travel more.
(A) Destination
(B) Believes
(C) Elementary
(D) knowledge

Q128.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
The car turned upside down no sooner as it hit the light pole.
(A) no sooner than it had hit
(B) no soon as it hit
(C) as soon as it hit
(D) No improvement required

Q129.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
The Trans-Siberian Railway in Russia is the faster railway line in the world.
(A) the fast
(B) No improvement required
(C) the fastest
(D) a fastest

Q130.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Himalayas include the highest mountains in the world and feed almost 20% of the
earth’s population.
(A) almost 20% of the earth’s population.
(B) highest mountains in
(C) the world and feed
(D) Himalayas include the

Q131.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
There are four tributaries of Ganga and it is ranked as the fifth most polluted river of
the world.
(A) is ranked as the fifth
(B) of Ganga and it
(C) There are four tributaries
(D) most polluted river of the world.

Q132.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution’.
In yesterday’s fire accident, her feets are burnt badly.
(A) her feet was
(B) her foots were
(C) her feet were
(D) No substitution

Q133.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
We need to make sure that criminals like these get more from the authorities than a
very mild punishment.
(A) a slap on the wrist
(B) an axe to grind
(C) a blessing in disguise
(D) a taste of their own medicine

Q134.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The gardener is going to plant some tulips in the garden this year.
(A) Some tulips are being planted in the garden this year.
(B) Some tulips have been planted in the garden this year.
(C) Some tulips will be planted in the garden this year.
(D) Some tulips are going to be planted in the garden this year.

Q135.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
If I have recovered from fever, / I will start going / for swimming classes / from
tomorrow.
(A) I will start going
(B) for swimming classes
(C) from tomorrow
(D) If I have recovered from fever

Q136.
In the following sentence, four words are underlined, out of which one word is
MISSPELT. Select the MISSPELT word.
Everyone admired her because of her charesma, but she was a narcissist full of self-
admiration and treachery.
(A) treachery
(B) self-admiration
(C) charesma
(D) narcissist

Q137.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that
has a grammatical error.
I am working with him since 2002, / but even today / I am unable / to understand his
motives.
(A) I am unable
(B) I am working with him since 2002
(C) to understand his motives.
(D) but even today

Q138.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined words in the
given sentence.
It’s Christmas and everything looks so beautiful. It makes me believe that life is
wonderful and pleasant.
(A) I’m up in the air
(B) I’m facing the music
(C) I’m changing my tune
(D) life is a bowl of cherries

Q139.
How does the passage distinguish new media from old media?
(A) New media includes user interaction, whereas, through old media, we only consume information.
(B) New media increases screen time and could be addictive and unhealthy, unlike old media.
(C) New media is fast and digitally based, whereas old media has never been beyond the conventional methods of representation.
(D) New media caters to a larger audience and is more popular than old media.

Q140.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The spectators gave hardly any money to the performer.
(A) The spectators were given hardly any money by the performer.
(B) The performer is given hardly any money by the spectators.
(C) The performer was given hardly any money by the spectators.
(D) The performer has been given hardly any money by the spectators.

Q141.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Bhawna cannot do anything unless someone gives her instructions.
(A) Nothing can be done unless Bhawna is given instructions.
(B) Nothing is done unless Bhawna is given instructions.
(C) Nothing has been done unless Bhawna can give instructions.
(D) Nothing is done unless Bhawna has given instructions.

Q142.
Select the option that best explains the underlined idiom in the given sentence.
A team's captain always keeps a level head, even in the most challenging situations.
(A) Prefers to keep his head covered with a cap
(B) Maintains an equal number of players on the field
(C) Remains calm and composed
(D) Keeps his head protected with a helmet

Q143.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
Kavya said that she was going to have a nap in the afternoon.
(A) Kavya said, “I am having a nap in the afternoon.”
(B) Kavya says, “She is going to have a nap in the afternoon.”
(C) Kavya said, “She was going to have a nap in the afternoon.”
(D) Kavya said, “I am going to have a nap in the afternoon.”

Q144.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
It had been a serious offence, but he was let out with a warning.
(A) is let out
(B) had been let off
(C) was let off
(D) No improvement required

Q145.
Why does the author of the passage ask us to forget the history that we were taught at
school?
(A) because the history book taught us that our nation is ancient
(B) because only the modern people can imagine that way
(C) because the history book taught us that there are no ancient nations in the world
(D) because the history book asks us to celebrate festivals which make us believe that our nation is modern

Q146.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option
that contains an error.
Those people which do not get sufficient sleep at night suffer from a disease
called insomnia.
(A) suffer from a disease
(B) Those people which do not get
(C) sufficient sleep at night
(D) called insomnia

Q147.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined part of the following
sentence.
Mathew decided to complete the marathon to prove that he is still fit as a fiddle in his
eighties.
(A) an owner of a fit horse
(B) a man of great qualities
(C) proud and unreliable
(D) a fit and energetic person

Q148.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution’.
The woman to who I sold my house was a criminal.
(A) No substitution
(B) to whom I sold
(C) to whom I sell
(D) to whom sold

Q149.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a spelling error.
The dried raisons / have an intoxicating /effect on humans as / well as flora and fauna.
(A) have an intoxicating
(B) The dried raisons
(C) effect on humans as
(D) well as flora and fauna.

Q150.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence. If there is no need to substitute it, select ‘No substitution’.
He is feeding a male dog and female dog
(A) a dog and puppy
(B) a dog and a bitch
(C) a male dog and lady dog
(D) No substitution

Q151.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The Government must strive to provide a/an fair and square deal to the citizen of its
country.
(A) exclusive and unreal
(B) honest and straightforward
(C) violent and immoral
(D) forward and backward

Q152.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
An awkward neither grammatically accurate sentence is the result of centre
implanting.
(A) awkward but grammatically
(B) awkward either grammatically
(C) awkward beyond grammatically
(D) awkward unless grammatically

Q153.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the
given sentence.
Though very informative, Shweta’s article was mercilessly rejected of the editor.
(A) was mercilessly rejected of
(B) was mercilessly rejected on
(C) was mercilessly rejected each
(D) was mercilessly rejected by

Q154.
Select the most appropriate idiom from the options to replace the underlined segment
in the given sentence.
After his business failed, he had to reduce spending and adjust to a frugal lifestyle.
(A) tighten his belt
(B) hit the nail on the head
(C) let the cat out of the bag
(D) kick the bucket

Q155.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Amit is also a chip off the old block like his brother, Tandon.
(A) getting ready for the future endeavours
(B) planning things ahead neatly
(C) talking to others tough like a stone
(D) resembling his parents in character and appearance

Q156.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
We can go on a vacation if everyone is agreeing.
(A) everyone is agree
(B) everyone will agreeing
(C) No improvement required
(D) everyone agrees

Q157.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
I prefer coffee than tea in the morning.
(A) No improvement required
(B) prefer coffee than to tea
(C) prefer coffee to tea
(D) preferred coffee than tea

Q158.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.
“I finished my homework early,” she said happily.
(A) She said happily that I have finished my homework early.
(B) She said happily that she has finished her homework early.
(C) She said happily that I finished her homework early.
(D) She said happily that she had finished her homework early.

Q159.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Had I known that you were planning to visit me, I should have done all the necessary
arrangements.
(A) I would have made
(B) I should have made
(C) I would have do
(D) I must have made

Q160.
Select the phrase/idiom that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence.
When our principal said she was leaving the company, I played out the opportunity to
fill the job.
(A) glided at the opportunity
(B) jumped at the opportunity
(C) started at the opportunity
(D) ran to the opportunity

Q161.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
Grandmother asked the little girl if she was hungry.
(A) Grandmother said to the little girl, “Was she hungry?”
(B) Grandmother said to the little girl, “Are you hungry?”
(C) Grandmother said to the little girl, “Is she hungry?”
(D) Grandmother said to the little girl, “If she was hungry.”

Q162.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Most of the committee / are here to / decide the fate of / this ancient building.
(A) are here to
(B) Most of the committee
(C) decide the fate of
(D) this ancient building.

Q163.
Select the most appropriate segment to substitute the underlined words in the given
sentence.
He always used to say that he was not a beggar by choice and if someone could
employ him, he would like to eat.
(A) love to work
(B) listen to me
(C) linger at work
(D) live to work

Q164.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
The cat lied on the cosy blanket, purring softly.
(A) No improvement required
(B) The cat lied in
(C) The cat lay on
(D) The cat laid at

Q165.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the
given sentence.
The road is too busy for elderly people that they cannot cross safely.
(A) that it is difficult to cross.
(B) to cross safely.
(C) that it cannot be crossed properly.
(D) that it is impossible for them to cross.

Q166.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
The chef prepares a special dish every evening.
(A) A special dish is prepared by the chef every evening.
(B) A special dish has been prepared by the chef every evening.
(C) A special dish is being prepared by the chef everyday.
(D) A special dish will be prepared by the chef every evening.

Q167.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that
has a grammatical error.
His energetic attitude / showed that he had / soundly slept / the previous night.
(A) His energetic attitude
(B) showed that he had
(C) the previous night.
(D) soundly slept

Q168.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence and select the option that
rectifies the spelling error.
Many promote bamboo planting for erosion prevention and to riverse the effects of
global warming.
(A) Reverse
(B) Bambboo
(C) Efeccts
(D) Prevension

Q169.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
The islands of Japan were connected to the Asian landmass about 12,000 years ago;
the first Japanese travelled across the water in serch of animals to hunt.
(A) Landmass
(B) Serch
(C) Connected
(D) Islands

Q170.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Sunita watered the plants and made my bed.
(A) The plants were watered and my bed was made by Sunita.
(B) The plants were watered and my bed will be made by Sunita.
(C) The plants has been watered and my bed has been made by Sunita.
(D) The plants had been watered and my bed made by Sunita.

Q171.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom.
Despite multiple obstacles, she continued with her endeavour, demonstrating that she
has nerves of steel.
(A) Extraordinary beauty
(B) An absence of fear or anxiety
(C) Relentless determination
(D) The capacity to maintain composure when stressed

Q172.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
My cousin said that he was good at drawing landscapes.
(A) My cousin said, “I am good at drawing landscapes.”
(B) My cousin told, “I was good at drawing landscapes.”
(C) My cousin said, “I was good at drawing landscapes.”
(D) My cousin said, “He was good at drawing landscapes.”

Q173.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in direct speech.
Anshuman exclaimed that he had lost his coat again.
(A) Anshuman said, “Alas! I had lost my coat again!”
(B) Anshuman said, “O God! How can I have lost my coat again!”
(C) Anshuman said, “O God, I have lost my coat again!”
(D) Anshuman said, “O God, he had lost his coat again!”

Q174.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an adverbial usage error.
Mrs. Gomathi was / that tired and weak / that she could / scarcely walk.
(A) Mrs. Gomathi was
(B) that she could
(C) scarcely walk.
(D) that tired and weak

Q175.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence and select the option that
rectifies the misspelling.
There are difficult times too, especially when the economy takes a dip and we have to
lai people off.
(A) Economie
(B) Dificult
(C) Lay
(D) Dipe

Q176.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
During vacations, Geeta saw a saltwater lake separated from the sea by rocks and
sand where she did kayak for the first time.
(A) lagoon
(B) river
(C) ditch
(D) sea

Q177.
Select the most appropriate segment to substitute the underlined words in the given
sentence.
Mr. Patel is likely to win the elections in the sweeping majority.
(A) elections by a sweeping majority
(B) elections on a sweeping majority
(C) elections of a sweeping majority
(D) elections at a sweeping majority

Q178.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that
has a grammatical error.
Soldiers in / the Indian Armed Forces are / trained never to / fight cowardly.
(A) fight cowardly.
(B) Soldiers in
(C) the Indian Armed Forces are
(D) trained never to

Q179.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the
given sentence.
We should not underestimate the signification of female education.
(A) underestimate the significance
(B) underestimate at signification
(C) underestimate on signification
(D) underestimate signification

Q180.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them contains an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options.
Mr. Raghav / brushes his / teeth four / times the day.
(A) brushes his
(B) times the day
(C) Mr. Raghav
(D) teeth four

Q181.
Select the most appropriate idiomatic expression that can substitute the underlined
segment in the given sentence.
He is very strict with his students but good-natured.
(A) his eyes are bigger than his stomach
(B) his heart is in the right place
(C) he has a big mouth
(D) his heart misses a beat

Q182.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In case
no improvement is needed, select 'No improvement required'.
What flavour ice cream do you want?
(A) No improvement required
(B) flavours ice cream
(C) flavour of ice cream
(D) ice cream flavoured

Q183.
Which of the following was the main accusation of the Nawab of Bengal against
the East India Company?
(A) It was depriving the Bengal government of huge amounts of revenue by deceitful practices.
(B) It had grabbed the Zamindari of three villages.
(C) It was extending its fortifications.
(D) It wrote disrespectful letters and humiliated the nawab’s officials.

Q184.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
The veteran footballer was expected for reach here by 10 o’clock, the notice said.
(A) expected on reach here
(B) expected to reach here
(C) expected of reach here
(D) expected by reach here

Q185.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence. In
case no improvement is needed, select ‘No improvement required’.
We should always wash our hands during having food.
(A) while
(B) before
(C) as soon as
(D) No improvement required

Q186.
Select the option that expresses the following sentence in direct speech.
She told me that she had visited Paris last summer.
(A) “I have been visiting Paris last summer,” she told me.
(B) “I will visit Paris next summer,” she told me.
(C) “I am visiting Paris next summer,” she told me.
(D) “I visited Paris last summer,” she told me.

Q187.
Select the most appropriate segment to substitute the underlined words in the given
sentence.
Youth is the time when the seeds of character is sown.
(A) the seeds of character will have been sowing
(B) the seeds of character had been sown
(C) the seeds of character were sown
(D) the seeds of character are sown

Q188.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The players like the coach because he is honest, realistic and practical in dealing with
them.
(A) down to earth
(B) by and large
(C) far and wide
(D) sick and tired

Q189.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Does the teacher explain the lesson every day?
(A) Is the lesson explained by the teacher every day?
(B) Has the lesson been explained by the teacher every day?
(C) Is the teacher explaining the lesson every day?
(D) Is the lesson being explained by the teacher every day?

Q190.
Select the word from the sentence below, which is an antonym for the word ‘resolve’
My cousin Nisha’s curiosity about life will never be satisfied because no one knows all
the answers to all her questions.
(A) About
(B) Questions
(C) Knows
(D) Satisfied

Q191.
In the following sentence, four words are underlined, out of which one word is
MISSPELT. Select the MISSPELT word.
The shedule followed by my sister ultimately leads to stress and other adverse effects.
(A) ultimately
(B) adverse
(C) followed
(D) shedule

Q192.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in indirect speech.
The coach said, “You should practice every day.”
(A) The coach said that I would practice every day.
(B) The coach said that I should practice every day.
(C) The coach said that I will practice every day.
(D) The coach said that I should have practiced every day.

Q193.
Based on the situation in the sentence, select the most appropriate idiom for the
underlined segment.
He always takes up difficult tasks – those which are beyond his capabilities.
(A) Pull someone’s leg
(B) Bite off more than you can chew
(C) No pain no gain
(D) Miss the boat

Q194.
The given sentence is divided into four segments. Identify the segment that contains a
grammatical error.
Had you been / working regularly, / you had completed / the project yesterday.
(A) Had you been
(B) the project yesterday
(C) you had completed
(D) working regularly

Q195.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word from the given options.
The new government allowed all the corrupt ministers to feel the sufficiency of money
by banning the specific currency.
(A) Indeficiency
(B) Plenty
(C) Enough
(D) Dearth

Q196.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined words.
He was promoted to a higher position in the first year due to his careful nature and
hard-working efforts.
(A) business mindedness
(B) extraordinary
(C) elegance
(D) diligence

Q197.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.
She said to him, “I will call you tomorrow.”
(A) She said to him that she will call him tomorrow.
(B) She said to him that I will call you tomorrow.
(C) She said to him that she would call him the next day.
(D) She said to him that she would call you the next day.

Q198.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains a grammatical error.
Raveena has made / up her mind to / carried minimum / luggage with her.
(A) Raveena has made
(B) up her mind to
(C) carried minimum
(D) luggage with her.

Q199.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them contains an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options.
Mrs. Rani / works for / a international / school.
(A) works for
(B) school
(C) a international
(D) Mrs. Rani

Q200.
Select the sentence that uses the given idiom correctly.
Have your head in the clouds
(A) He had his head in the clouds during an important meeting.
(B) The pilot had his head in the clouds while flying a plane.
(C) They had their heads in the clouds by looking up at the sky during a meteor shower.
(D) She had her head in the clouds by wearing a cloud-shaped hat.

Q201.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined words.
I do not like him because he always disapproves the things or opinions of others.
(A) is insensitive of others feelings
(B) is a hate monger
(C) is critical of others
(D) is jealous of other people

Q202.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
It is a fact that the same judgement can often be taken by more than one way.
(A) be taken on more than
(B) be taken in more than
(C) be taken for more than
(D) be taken of more than

Q203.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
She meticulously arranged the meeting agenda _____ every intricate detail of the
project could be thoroughly discussed and analysed by the team.
(A) even so
(B) as if
(C) such as
(D) so that

Q204.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
I don't know which career he will choose. He delays making strong decisions.
(A) sits on the fence
(B) is as clean as a whistle
(C) turns a blind eye
(D) spills the beans

Q205.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in reported speech.
He said, "I visited Paris last summer."
(A) He said that he had visited Paris the previous summer.
(B) He said that I visited Paris last summer.
(C) He said that he was visiting Paris last summer.
(D) He said that he had been visiting Paris the previous summer.

Q206.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following
sentence.
The government is proposing to incinerate cattle carcasses at many sites, some of
which are in populated areas.
(A) Oxidise
(B) Blaze
(C) Extinguish
(D) Combust

Q207.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment
that contains a grammatical error.
He entered the room / such quietly that / none of us / noticed him.
(A) noticed him
(B) such quietly that
(C) none of us
(D) He entered the room

Q208.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blanks.
_________ silver bangle was discovered in _____ ancient temple complex where the
archaeologists were carrying out excavations.
(A) No word required; the
(B) A; an
(C) The; a
(D) A; no word required

Q209.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
During the preparation for competitive exams, Meena avoided going to parties.
(A) cracked a joke
(B) steered clear of
(C) fired a cracker
(D) whispered a secret

Q210.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Even after becoming bankrupt, Charlie is able to maintain an outward show.
(A) bring down the house
(B) keep up appearances
(C) bell the cat
(D) cut a sorry figure

Q211.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Why didn’t your mother pick you up today?
(A) Why haven’t you been picked up by your mother today?
(B) Why didn’t you be picked up by your mother today?
(C) Why wasn’t your mother picked up by you today?
(D) Why weren’t you picked up by your mother today?

Q212.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Last night, I failed to sleep because of some familiar issues that couldn’t be avoided.
(A) unthinkable
(B) unsolvable
(C) inevitable
(D) incapable

Q213.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Before she began, she asked the teacher whether she write with a pen or a pencil.
(A) she can write
(B) she wrote
(C) she should write
(D) she did write.

Q214.
Select the word which means the same as the group of words underlined in the given
sentence.
Today, a man who betrayed his own country in exchange for money was the topic of
every news report.
(A) Gangster
(B) Terrorist
(C) Traitor
(D) Conman

Q215.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The environmental organisation issued a statement to condemn the deforestation
happening in the protected area.
(A) Censure
(B) Persuade
(C) Foster
(D) Compel

Q216.
Select the word from the sentence below, which is an antonym for the word
‘dishearten’
Many of the world’s greatest art pieces are encouraged by kings and are inspired by
nature and society.
(A) Greatest
(B) Pieces
(C) Inspired
(D) Encouraged

Q217.
Which of the following questions CANNOT be answered on the basis of the above
passage?
(A) Where were the two ancient temples unearthed recently?
(B) When was the ancient town of Poseidonia founded and by whom?
(C) Which earlier temples were discovered at the same archaeological site?
(D) To which deities are the newly found temples dedicated?

Q218.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined words in the
given sentence.
I have been living without a lot of money since I lost my job.
(A) receiving a kickback
(B) living hand to mouth
(C) keeping my chin up
(D) as genuine as a three-dollar bill

Q219.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them contains an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options.
Mr. Vinu / has never / slept in / a igloo.
(A) slept in
(B) a igloo
(C) Mr. Vinu
(D) has never

Q220.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
Can we go visit a Statue of Liberty on our trip to the United States?
(A) on our trip to
(B) Can we go
(C) the United States?
(D) visit a Statue of Liberty

Q221.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Reena decided not to go to work today because she was feeling sick.
(A) under the weather
(B) fit as a fiddle
(C) sitting on the fence
(D) going down in flames

Q222.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined part of the given
sentence.
All the kith and kin of my deceased landlady were present to attend her funeral.
(A) office colleagues
(B) secret enemies
(C) special students
(D) blood relatives

Q223.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains a spelling error.
My strength is as the strenght of ten because my heart is pure.
(A) my heart is pure
(B) My strength is
(C) as the strenght
(D) of ten because

Q224.
Select the phrase/idiom that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence.
After two hours of wandering in the desert, we realised we were on a wild horse race.
(A) wild goose chase
(B) wild jackal hunt
(C) wild carpet rug
(D) wild shadow chase

Q225.
Why does the passage observe that more human-caused earthquakes are expected?
(A) It is due to the Greenhouse Effect.
(B) It is due to the fragility of the earth.
(C) It is due to the demand for energy and minerals.
(D) It is due to the over soil erosion. Sub Inspector in Delhi Police and Central Armed Police Forces Examination 2024 Paper I Exam

Q226.
Underlined word in the sentence is not spelt correctly. Identify the correct spelling
from the options given below.
The boys seem irresponsibly insaucient about bullying the juniors.
(A) Insoucient
(B) Insuociant
(C) Insouciant
(D) Insouceant

Q227.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined segment in the following
sentence.
Don’t you think that the cat’s in the cradle? You never make time for me.
(A) Newly married life
(B) Busy in your work
(C) Complicated relationship
(D) Busy in minting money

Q228.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the underlined idiom in the given sentence.
Only those having blue blood can dethrone the evil autocrat and restore equilibrium.
(A) Political ideology
(B) Vigilant nature
(C) Aristocratic lineage
(D) Bitter relations

Q229.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The beauty of cherry blossoms is ephemeral, as the delicate pink petals bloom for
only a short period.
(A) Uniform
(B) Unwavering
(C) Permanent
(D) Transient

Q230.
How did the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb help the East India Company in making
its trades profitable?
(A) By giving the company the rights to trade duty free
(B) By allowing the company to fortify its settlement
(C) By permitting the company officials to trade privately
(D) By gifting the company the zamindari of three villages

Q231.
The following sentence has been divided into parts. One of them contains an error.
Select the part that contains the error from the given options.
Mr. Thomas / is going / to buy / horse.
(A) is going
(B) Mr. Thomas
(C) to buy
(D) horse

Q232.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Her sarcastic comment earned a few chuckles from the audience, who understood the
irony in her words.
(A) Unsavoury
(B) Courteous
(C) Sardonic
(D) Humorous

Q233.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group
of words.
The branch of medicine that deals with the study and treatment of nervous
system disorders.
(A) Neurology
(B) Dermatology
(C) Cardiology
(D) Urology

Q234.
Select the word which means the same as the group of words underlined in the given
sentence.
These glass windows are so old and one can’t even see through them, they need to be
replaced.
(A) Opaque
(B) Dirty
(C) Transparent
(D) Black

Q235.
Select the option that will improve the underlined part of the given sentence.
My friend vanished when the goons came to fight with me.
(A) mobilised when the thugs arrived
(B) disappeared when the thugs arrived
(C) condemned when the thugs arrived
(D) attacked when the thugs arrived

Q236.
Underlined word in the sentence is not spelt correctly. Identify the correct spelling
from the options given below.
Raman had been living a reklusive life since he had lost his job.
(A) Recslusive
(B) Reclucive
(C) Reslusive
(D) Reclusive

Q237.
Select the most appropriate segment to substitute the underlined words in the given
sentence.
The Sumo wrestler seemed to be incapable in being tired.
(A) incapable of being tired
(B) incapable from being tired
(C) incapable to being tired
(D) incapable by being tired

Q238.
Underlined word in the sentence is not spelt correctly. Identify the correct spelling
from the options given below.
A congragation of monks reached Shimla for the convention.
(A) Congregetion
(B) Cangregation
(C) Congretettion
(D) Congregation

Q239.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The author’s writing style is characterised by its poetic language.
(A) lyrical language
(B) simple language
(C) lucid language
(D) prosaic language

Q240.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
The liberal leadership simply joined the ranks of the existing government by the few.
(A) Plutocracy
(B) Democracy
(C) Autocracy
(D) Oligarchy

Q241.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Ratul’s capability of being able to speak two languages is apt for this post.
(A) bilingual
(B) bicultural
(C) bidialectical
(D) lingual

Q242.
Underlined word in the sentence is not spelt correctly. Identify the correct spelling
from the options given below.
He was a benaevolent young man who would help his colleagues.
(A) Benavolent
(B) Benevolent
(C) Benevalant
(D) Banevolent

Q243.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the
given sentence.
My grandmother helps us in all the problems. She has a remedy for all the diseases.
(A) ‘Service’
(B) Panacea
(C) Fanatic
(D) Heretic

Q244.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the underlined part in the given sentence:
Sohan was very much perplexed to find that his younger brother Mohan had taken
poison.
(A) At any rate
(B) At his wit’s end
(C) At logger heads
(D) At his disposal

Q245.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Attempting to impress by affecting greater importance or merit than is actually
possessed
(A) Pretentious
(B) Imperious
(C) Airy
(D) Glorious

Q246.
Why is it not easy to draw a line between old media and new media?
(A) Because new media can be customised to users’ preferences
(B) Because new media is considered to be the multimedia and digital form of communication
(C) Because both include various kinds of medium
(D) Because old media has found new ways of representation in digital forms

Q247.
Choose the most appropriate meaning of the underlined phrase.
He's still keeping his chin up despite all his health problems.
(A) To keep one’s chin clean and moist
(B) To stay safe during difficulty
(C) To stay cheerful during difficult times
(D) To save others during difficult times

Q248.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the highlighted words in the
given sentence.
His interpretation of the facts was impressive.
(A) understands of realities
(B) understand of realities
(C) understood of realities
(D) understanding of realities

Q249.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option
that contains an error.
A war was waging all around and the whole village was at panic.
(A) the whole village
(B) A war was waging
(C) was at panic
(D) all around and

Q250.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
We were driving home when suddenly a deer runs across the road.
(A) home
(B) We were driving
(C) a deer runs across the road
(D) when suddenly

Q251.
Select the option that expresses the meaning of the underlined segment.
The regulation bans any direct or indirect promotion through radio or television of
supernatural practices.
(A) Questionable
(B) Obtuse
(C) Occult
(D) Evident

Q252.
The following sentence has been divided into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an adverbial usage error.
Mr. Sukesh and / his family / ate the / food greedy.
(A) ate the
(B) Mr. Sukesh and
(C) his family
(D) food greedy.

Q253.
Select the sentence that uses the given idiom correctly.
Skating on thin ice
(A) They were on thin ice when they skated on the frozen lake.
(B) She was on thin ice while trying to balance on a tightrope.
(C) He was on thin ice after making a controversial statement.
(D) They were on thin ice due to the icy conditions on the road.

Q254.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Ignoring his father’s warnings, he said, “an elephant in the room” to his mother.
(A) The elephant got stuck in the room
(B) There is an obvious problem
(C) Someone begins to suspect
(D) Someone hiding in the room

Q255.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the idiom in the given sentence.
She’s feeling under the weather today.
(A) She’s feeling happy and energetic.
(B) She’s feeling adventurous and ready for a challenge.
(C) She’s feeling worried about something.
(D) She’s not feeling well or is a bit sick.

Q256.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option
that contains an error.
It will take us five and a half hours to reach Jaipur, is it?
(A) to reach Jaipur
(B) is it?
(C) five and a half hours
(D) It will take us

Q257.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Popular cosmetics brands in India are very expensive.
(A) up in arms
(B) flog a dead horse
(C) take it with a pinch of salt
(D) cost an arm and a leg

Q258.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Feeling of being in a place before having already experienced the present situation
(A) Deja-vu
(B) Illusion
(C) Spirituality
(D) Delusion

Q259.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
What exactly have the teachers being doing wrong?
(A) teachers been doing
(B) teachers being done
(C) teachers are doing
(D) teachers have been doing

Q260.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
The company plans to expand its business to the international market.
(A) to reduce
(B) to contract
(C) to increase
(D) to limit

Q261.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group
of words.
A person who pretends to have virtues or qualities that he or she does not have
(A) Sycophant
(B) Parasite
(C) Hypocrite
(D) Philanthropist

Q262.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word in brackets to fill in the blank.
Emotional stimulation provides the necessary __________ for creative imagination.
(fecundity)
(A) fertility
(B) force
(C) fulcrum
(D) freedom

Q263.
Which of the following statements is correct?
(A) Only modern people can imagine the existence of ancient nations.
(B) History books should be read again and again because they celebrate ancient nations.
(C) Ancient India is an ancient civilization but not an ancient nation.
(D) Novels, films and speeches of leaders celebrate the modernity of nations

Q264.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
Rahul has done a study of statistics that contributed to the research.
(A) Demography
(B) Choreography
(C) Cartography
(D) Cinematography

Q265.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The act or process of going from the simple or basic to the complex or advanced.
(A) Wither
(B) Ennoblement
(C) Evolution
(D) Flourishing

Q266.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
Mihir's ability to think outside ____________ always gives our team the upper hand
when tackling complex problems.
(A) the room
(B) the cupboard
(C) the box
(D) the bowl

Q267.
Parts of the following sentences have been given as options. Select the option that
contains a grammatical error.
Mr. Prabhakar was first man to arrive at the venue.
(A) was first man
(B) Mr. Prabhakar
(C) to arrive
(D) at the venue

Q268.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The patronage bestowed in consideration of family relationships and not of merit.
(A) Egotism
(B) Mannerism
(C) Neologism
(D) Nepotism

Q269.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
When I went to Egypt and lost my wallet and passport, I was _____________.
(A) rolling up my sleeves
(B) putting my nose to the grindstone
(C) working my fingers to the bone
(D) up in a creek without a paddle

Q270.
Select the most appropriate option that rectifies the error(s) in the following sentence.
One must do his/her duty proparly.
(A) One must do one’s duti proprly.
(B) One must do ones duty properly.
(C) One must do one's duty properly.
(D) One must do once duty proparly.

Q271.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
He wanted to visiting the Golden Temple in Amritsar.
(A) wanted to be visit
(B) wanted to visited
(C) wanted to visitor
(D) wanted to visit

Q272.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains a spelling error.
Grievances cannot be redresed unless they are known.
(A) Grievances cannot
(B) be redresed
(C) unless they
(D) are known.

Q273.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group
of words.
Pleasing to the sense of taste or smell especially by reason of effective seasoning
(A) Savoury
(B) Sweet
(C) Stale
(D) Smelly

Q274.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
John was always ________ about becoming a millionaire without doing any hard work.
(A) a storm in a tea cup
(B) eating like a horse
(C) building castles in the air
(D) having an ace up his sleeve

Q275.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
For the past / three years, / my uncle is /away from home.
(A) three years
(B) For the past
(C) my uncle is
(D) away from home.

Q276.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The period of time in a person's life when they are developing into an adult
(A) Adolescence
(B) Adultery
(C) Teenage
(D) Childhood

Q277.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
She asked me where my hometown is and where I worked.
(A) hometown has been
(B) hometown would be
(C) hometown were
(D) hometown was

Q278.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option
that contains an error.
The stain on your shirt can be removed from lime juice.
(A) The stain
(B) from lime juice
(C) can be removed
(D) on your shirt

Q279.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
My neighbours were serious injured in the car accident.
(A) serious injured
(B) My neighbours were
(C) the car accident
(D) in

Q280.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the highlighted words in the
given sentence.
The serenity of the river was a sight to behold.
(A) confusing for all
(B) ready to be sold
(C) inviting for boating
(D) pleasant to see

Q281.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group
of words.
An optical instrument designed to make distant objects appear nearer
(A) Kaleidoscope
(B) Telescope
(C) Magnifying glass
(D) Microscope

Q282.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word from the following sentence.
Confusing
The stars twinkled in the dark sky, guiding travellers on their journey.
(A) Guiding
(B) Twinkled
(C) Travellers
(D) Journey

Q283.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Shakespeare is great than any other English poet.
(A) was great than
(B) was greater than
(C) is greater than
(D) is greatest than

Q284.
Select the most appropriate idiom that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
Read the books of APJ Abdul Kalam, who was a scholar.
(A) a queer fish
(B) a man of letters
(C) a dare devil
(D) a man of straw

Q285.
Parts of the following sentences have been given as options. Select the option that
contains a grammatical error.
Ms. Malathi is living lonely in an apartment.
(A) is living
(B) lonely in
(C) Ms. Malathi
(D) an apartment

Q286.
The following sentence has been split into four segments. Identify the segment that
contains an error.
Ramesh licked (A) / honey and (B) / said that (C) / it tasted sweetly. (D)
(A) D
(B) A
(C) B
(D) C

Q287.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blanks.
At the party last night, I found her engrossed in __________ conversation with
_______ renowned scientist.
(A) a; no word
(B) the; a
(C) the; the
(D) a; a

Q288.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
The film was being watched by the family.
(A) The family was watching the film.
(B) The family has been watching the film.
(C) The film was watching the family.
(D) The family is watching the film.

Q289.
Select the option that is similar in meaning to the underlined word in the following
sentence.
Looking after small children is a real conundrum for working parents.
(A) peace
(B) plan
(C) problem
(D) pacification

Q290.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
Is the news watched by you every day?
(A) Have you watched the news every day?
(B) Will you be watching the news everyday?
(C) Do you watch the news every day?
(D) Are you watching the news every day?

Q291.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
The team always _______ to come up with unique advertisements for all its clients.
(A) thinks outside the box
(B) throw caution to the winds
(C) take a back seat
(D) turn the tables

Q292.
Select the most appropriate idiom for the underlined part in the given sentence:
Amar was left in a difficult situation by his business partners.
(A) High and dry
(B) Hard and fast
(C) Head and shoulders above
(D) Heart and soul

Q293.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following
sentence.
The teacher praised the student for his diligent work and consistent effort.
(A) frazzle
(B) persistent
(C) lazy
(D) squander

Q294.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains a spelling error.
Joe was so tired that he could scarely stand.
(A) he could
(B) so tired that
(C) scarely stand.
(D) Joe was

Q295.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
The puzzle was so intricately designed ______ even the most seasoned
cryptographers found themselves perplexed.
(A) as
(B) since
(C) that
(D) when

Q296.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The repetitive and monotonous task of data entry made the work seem incredibly long
and tedious.
(A) Pious
(B) Interesting
(C) Precarious
(D) Threatening

Q297.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The doctor who deals with the female reproductive system.
(A) Ophthalmologist
(B) Orthodontist
(C) Cardiologist
(D) Gynaecologist

Q298.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the underlined group
of words.
There was a huge fire for celebration on the occasion of Diwali.
(A) Lohri
(B) Flash
(C) Bonfire
(D) Firecracker

Q299.
Select the most appropriate segment to substitute the underlined words in the given
sentence.
You have tears, prepare to shed them now.
(A) If you have tears
(B) Yet you have tears
(C) Until you have tears
(D) Unless you have tears

Q300.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Submit the report by Friday.
(A) Let the report be submitted by Friday.
(B) The report can be submitted by Friday.
(C) The report has to be submitted by Friday.
(D) Let the report submit by Friday.

Q301.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group
of words.
Having a harmful effect, especially in a gradual or subtle way
(A) Pretentious
(B) Penurious
(C) Perfidious
(D) Pernicious

Q302.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blanks.
The detective carefully examined the crime scene, searching ____ clues hidden
____ the shadows.
(A) from; beyond
(B) for; in
(C) to; under
(D) over; in

Q303.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The speaker delivered a profound speech that left the audience deeply moved.
(A) Deep
(B) Inventive
(C) Shallow
(D) Occult

Q304.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
Every season the river overflows its banks and when it goes down it leaves silt for
crops to be gruwn.
(A) Gruwn
(B) Season
(C) Overflows
(D) Silt

Q305.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The brave knight set out to vanquish the fearsome dragon and protect the kingdom
from its menace.
(A) Liberate
(B) Measure
(C) Engage
(D) Instill

Q306.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
An open space usually rectangular and enclosed in a building
(A) Quadruped
(B) Quinton
(C) Quadrangle
(D) Quintessential

Q307.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word in brackets to fill in the blank.
Her million-dollar wedding was a ________ display of wealth. (pompous)
(A) prestigious
(B) outrageous
(C) mock
(D) pretentious

Q308.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Modesty or shyness resulting from a lack of self-confidence
(A) Assurance
(B) Determination
(C) Conviction
(D) Diffidence

Q309.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in passive voice.
Who grew these poinsettias?
(A) By whom were these poinsettias grown?
(B) These poinsettias are grown by who?
(C) Who was grown by these poinsettias?
(D) Were these poinsettias grown by whom?

Q310.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Indians tend to be quite conservative in most aspects of life, particularly in rural areas.
(A) Liberal
(B) Fantastic
(C) Determined
(D) Authentic

Q311.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Get itchy feet
(A) Judge something primarily on appearance
(B) Learn something by memorising it without a thought to what is being learnt
(C) To start to want to travel or do something different
(D) Join a popular trend or activity

Q312.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group
of words.
Able to withstand or recover quickly from difficult conditions
(A) Remnant
(B) Reliant
(C) Relevant
(D) Resilient

Q313.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
I prefer walking than riding.
(A) walking to riding
(B) walking above riding
(C) walking from riding
(D) walking with riding

Q314.
Which of the following words has a similar meaning to the underlined word?
Numerous tremors without any tectonic plate movement have baffled geologists.
(A) Angered
(B) Irritated
(C) Perplexed
(D) Amused

Q315.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given sentence.
My friends are on a trip to the world.
(A) in the world
(B) by the world
(C) within the world
(D) around the world

Q316.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the
given sentence.
The culprit had been shot from the back by the police inspector.
(A) to
(B) in
(C) by
(D) off

Q317.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the italicised segment
in the given sentence.
Tin is easy to shape in any desired form.
(A) malleable
(B) rigid
(C) immutable
(D) gullible

Q318.
Select the option that is similar in meaning to the underlined word in the following
sentence.
Chameleon usually disguises itself to avoid predators.
(A) changes
(B) camouflages
(C) transposes
(D) swaps

Q319.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
A new broom sweeps clean
(A) New tools work effectively
(B) New things are more attractive than the older ones
(C) People tend to forget old things when new ones come
(D) New management makes far-reaching changes

Q320.
Select the most appropriate segment to substitute the underlined wordsin the given
sentence.
After he leave, we discussed his suggestion.
(A) he will be leaving
(B) he has left
(C) he had left
(D) he was leaving

Q321.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the
given sentence.
My son will carry out my business in my absence.
(A) carry at
(B) carry on
(C) carry for
(D) carry in

Q322.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A news article that reports the recent death of a person.
(A) Culinary
(B) Obituary
(C) Centenary
(D) Mortuary

Q323.
It can be inferred from the passage that:
(A) women enrolment declined in the year 2021-22 from that in 2019-20
(B) more women students have enrolled in engineering than men
(C) the gender gap in higher education has widened over the years
(D) more women students have enrolled in science courses than men

Q324.
Select the word from the sentence below, which is an antonym for the word
‘uniformity’
A great variety of birds is found in the sanctuaries of India.
(A) Great
(B) Variety
(C) Found
(D) Sanctuaries

Q325.
Select the option that is similar in meaning to the underlined word in the following
sentence.
A good critic should also be a person of great candour.
(A) will
(B) resolution
(C) honesty
(D) power

Q326.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
We were grateful for a book they gave us.
(A) they gave us
(B) We were
(C) grateful for
(D) a book

Q327.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The arrival of spring brings an ebullient feeling as flowers bloom and the weather
warms.
(A) Deciduous
(B) Clamant
(C) Rude
(D) Weary

Q328.
In the first three paragraphs of the passage, what is the recurring thought in the
mind of the author?
(A) The power of positive thinking
(B) The father’s expectations of his son
(C) Homesickness and wish to adjust
(D) Joining a new school

Q329.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A film shown during the day, especially in the afternoon
(A) Dramatics
(B) Matinee
(C) Cinema
(D) Theatre

Q330.
Parts of the following sentence have been given as options. Select the option that
contains an error.
My father is comparatively better today.
(A) comparatively better
(B) is
(C) My father
(D) today.

Q331.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A woman having more than one husband at the same time
(A) Endogamy
(B) Polymathy
(C) Polyandry
(D) Monogamy

Q332.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the following
sentence.
He behaved ruthlessly with his junior, to say the least.
(A) Unexpectedly
(B) Inhumanly
(C) Weirdly
(D) Politely

Q333.
What does the expression “drill into your heads” mean?
(A) make someone learn or understand something by repeating it
(B) threaten someone repeatedly drill machine
(C) force someone to move his/her head in a particular direction
(D) repeatedly question someone regarding a certain issue

Q334.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
Mount Vesuvius is a volcano that erapts hot ashes which fall from the sky like a
blizzard.
(A) Erapts
(B) Blizzard
(C) Ashes
(D) Volcano

Q335.
Rectify the sentence by selecting the correct spelling of the underlined word from the
options.
The baby smiled and laughed at the pickaboo game.
(A) peakaboo
(B) pikaboo
(C) peekaboo
(D) pekaboo

Q336.
Select the most appropriate article to fill in the blank (ø-no article).
_________ SDO is the head of the sub-division of ___ government organisation.
(A) a; a
(B) Ø; a
(C) an; ø
(D) an; a

Q337.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Recession fettered the company from any further investments.
(A) Concealed
(B) Valuable
(C) Depended
(D) Liberated

Q338.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who is filled with excessive enthusiasm
(A) Horticulturist
(B) Introvert
(C) Narcissist
(D) Extrovert

Q339.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word in brackets to fill in the blank.
Queen Gulnaar of Arabia mourned her ________ beauty. (waning)
(A) false
(B) frightening
(C) fading
(D) futile

Q340.
Select the most appropriate option to substitute the underlined segment in the given
sentence.
Rajan’s caused extremely painful headaches.
(A) excruciating
(B) horrible
(C) extreme
(D) devastating

Q341.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A doubtful look or examination of one's motives.
(A) Introspect
(B) Suspect
(C) Circumspect
(D) Retrospect

Q342.
Identify the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The door was ajar and a faint wisp of smoke floated through it.
(A) Itchy
(B) Lot
(C) Trickle
(D) Wind

Q343.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blanks.
The swimming pool is about five kilometres ____ our house. So we go there _____
car.
(A) to; by
(B) from; in
(C) from; by
(D) to; in

Q344.
Choose the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
It may seem pretintious to say so but I cannot live without my essential articles.
(A) essential
(B) cannot
(C) articles
(D) pretintious

Q345.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A deal of agreement done in a company or firm.
(A) Concurrence
(B) Acceptance
(C) Contract
(D) Conformity

Q346.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Referring to something from the past of high quality
(A) Epoch
(B) Vintage
(C) Outdated
(D) Culture

Q347.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A mythological animal with one horn on its forehead
(A) Unicameral
(B) Unipod
(C) Unific
(D) Unicorn

Q348.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
From cradle to grave
(A) Buying something very cheap or very expensive
(B) During the whole span of one’s life
(C) Giving directions and telling someone to follow
(D) To achieve something you needed

Q349.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who is critical of the motives of others
(A) Cynic
(B) Interviewer
(C) Chauffeur
(D) Curator

Q350.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
Mr. Satterthwaite was shrewd enough to penetrate her meaning.
(A) Aged
(B) Funny
(C) Innocent
(D) Smart

Q351.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Through thick and thin
(A) Always supporting someone even if there are problems or difficulties
(B) Sometimes thin, sometimes thick
(C) Never giving up a friendship
(D) Never giving up on a goal

Q352.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group
of words.
Intense sadness especially caused by somebody’s death
(A) Grief
(B) Ache
(C) Torture
(D) Worry

Q353.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Maria thinks the animals that live in freedom have a sad look in their eyes.
(A) Carefree
(B) Liberty
(C) Surrendered
(D) Captivity

Q354.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blanks.
When I met Sarah at a café, _____ learnt that ______ had visited Japan last month.
(A) I; she
(B) she; she
(C) I; we
(D) you; I

Q355.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group
of words.
Showing careful and persistent effort or work
(A) Diligent
(B) Cogent
(C) Intelligent
(D) Indulgent

Q356.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
By whom was this painting made?
(A) Who made this painting?
(B) Whom made this painting?
(C) Who has made this painting?
(D) Who was making this painting?

Q357.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Dwarfed varieties of trees and shrubs in pots
(A) Bonafide
(B) Orchard
(C) Botanical
(D) Bonsai

Q358.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group
of words.
Make smaller or less in amount, degree, or size
(A) Reclaim
(B) Refine
(C) Reduce
(D) Recoup

Q359.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
An area/place in which dead bodies are buried
(A) Demise
(B) Cemetery
(C) Mansion
(D) Clementi

Q360.
Select the option that expresses the meaning of the underlined segment.
Partly, it may be a desire to stop emotions in front of strangers.
(A) Smash
(B) Quiet
(C) Quell
(D) Put out

Q361.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group
of words.
A fellow worker or associate in an office
(A) Colleague
(B) Consort
(C) Contemporary
(D) Convict

Q362.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who does not express himself freely.
(A) Approachable
(B) Immodest
(C) Introvert
(D) Outgoing

Q363.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined words in the
given sentence.
Ice melts fastly,in the sun.
(A) melts fastest
(B) melt fastly
(C) melt fast
(D) melts fast

Q364.
Choose the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Back to back
(A) Present and discuss the details of something.
(B) Do something very fast or with great energy.
(C) Something follows immediately after something else.
(D) Try to get something.

Q365.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Nip in the bud
(A) To publicise a long-kept secret
(B) To stop something from growing beyond limit
(C) To complete a prolonged or unfinished work
(D) To suppress something at an early stage

Q366.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blanks.
______ History Club of our college is organising ________ tour to Aurangabad.
(A) The; the
(B) A; a
(C) A; the
(D) The; a

Q367.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group
of words.
Present, appearing or found everywhere
(A) Omnibus
(B) Omnipotent
(C) Omnipresent
(D) Omniscient

Q368.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Someone who speaks more than one language
(A) Heretic
(B) Fatalist
(C) Polyglot
(D) Insolvent

Q369.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
The hypothesis that the police believed in led to a lot of chaos.
(A) speculation
(B) breakthrough
(C) trepidation
(D) encounter

Q370.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A soldier who fights for the sake of money
(A) Marine
(B) Veteran
(C) Mercenary
(D) Admiral

Q371.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who believes in the existence of God
(A) Fatalist
(B) Atheist
(C) Theist
(D) Protagonist

Q372.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A place for storage of arms and ammunition
(A) Mint
(B) Arsenal
(C) Monastery
(D) Scullery

Q373.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
Large-scale hunting scenes and slaugter of wild animals is a heinous crime.
(A) Slaugter
(B) Heinous
(C) Scenes
(D) Hunting

Q374.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Beat around the bush
(A) To avoid talking about what is important
(B) To await an explanation
(C) To take on a task that is way too big
(D) To do something without any hesitation

Q375.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A person who is a lover of women.
(A) Philologist
(B) Monogamist
(C) Philogynist
(D) Misogynist

Q376.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word in the following
sentence.
The woman in the crowd broke down in hysterics.
(A) Aghast
(B) Cray
(C) Calm
(D) Insanity

Q377.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word in the given sentence.
The cacophony in the theatre was too much for us.
(A) silence
(B) smell
(C) noise
(D) laughter

Q378.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The original inhabitants of a country
(A) Primitive
(B) Citizens
(C) Aborigines
(D) Aliens

Q379.
The passage is mainly about:
(A) the framework for increasing production of Dehraduni Basmati rice
(B) the revival of cultivation of Dehraduni Basmati rice
(C) the factors affecting the production of Dehraduni Basmati rice
(D) the declining cultivation of Dehraduni Basmati rice

Q380.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A story intended to teach moral lessons
(A) Parboil
(B) Parable
(C) Parole
(D) Parasite

Q381.
Which of the following would be the most appropriate title for this passage?
(A) The Mysterious Language of Pirates
(B) The Serious World of Pirates
(C) The Humorous Quirks of Pirates
(D) The Fierce and Intimidating Pirate Culture

Q382.
Identify the INCORRECTLY spelt word in the given sentence.
Generousity is a godly feature among many individuals on the earth.
(A) Generousity
(B) feature
(C) godly
(D) individuals

Q383.
The passage is mainly about:
(A) how the East India Company established itself firmly in Bengal
(B) the private trades of company officials in Bengal
(C) the power exerted by the Nawabs of Bengal on the East India Company
(D) the Company’s zamindari of three villages in Bengal

Q384.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group
of words.
Fear of being in closed spaces
(A) Claustrophobia
(B) Acrophobia
(C) Cacophobia
(D) Hydrophobia

Q385.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
Her behaviour was consistent even in challenging situations.
(A) Appreciative
(B) Standard
(C) Enthusiastic
(D) Unpredictable

Q386.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank and make the sentence the
meaningful.
Rathna is known for _____ tears.
(A) student’s
(B) babies’
(C) animal’s
(D) crocodile

Q387.
Select the option that expresses the given sentence in active voice.
Was the novel read by her?
(A) Does she read the novel?
(B) Did she read the novel?
(C) Has she read the novel?
(D) Had she read the novel?

Q388.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
An unpleasant mixture of loud sounds.
(A) Harmony
(B) Hegemony
(C) Irony
(D) Cacophony

Q389.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A lively, cheerful outgoing person.
(A) Orator
(B) Ambivert
(C) Extrovert
(D) Introvert

Q390.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The reports of the medical tests done are now accessible on phone.
(A) Useless
(B) Free
(C) Restricted
(D) Invisible

Q391.
Select the option that rectifies the spelling error in the given sentence.
She is going to resiev a package in the mail today.
(A) reseive
(B) receive
(C) resieve
(D) recieive

Q392.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Madness or obsession with males
(A) Polygamy
(B) Loquacious
(C) Misandrist
(D) Andromania

Q393.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A professional rider in horse races
(A) Jockey
(B) Stuntman
(C) Southpaw
(D) Batsman

Q394.
What does the term ‘Catch-all’ mean?
(A) A category which includes all the types of media
(B) A category that includes all the sources of information
(C) A category that includes all the sources of entertainment
(D) A category which includes many different things

Q395.
Select the most appropriate idiom to fill in the blank.
She now has more than a year as minister___________.
(A) under her belt
(B) on her thin ice
(C) in the fast lane
(D) down for the count

Q396.
Select the word which means the same as the group of words given.
A society or company provides these convenient features
(A) Equipment
(B) Facilitate
(C) System
(D) Amenities

Q397.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The approach or style of teaching
(A) Pedagogy
(B) Media
(C) Philology
(D) Platform

Q398.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Beat around the bush.
(A) To go around the bush.
(B) To live around the bush.
(C) To avoid talking about what is important.
(D) To talk about something important.

Q399.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the underlined word.
The artist's abstract painting was enigmatic to the viewers.
(A) Mysterious
(B) Instigating
(C) Clear
(D) Thrilling

Q400.
Why have major airline companies pledged to reach net-zero carbon emissions by
mid-century?
(A) To moderate expenditure
(B) To create better revenue
(C) To reduce traffic jam
(D) To fight climate change

Q401.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blanks.
He looked around _____ his friend _____ the bustling crowd.
(A) to; between
(B) for; at
(C) by; about
(D) for; among

Q402.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
When pigs fly
(A) Something that will never last long
(B) Something that will never deviate
(C) something that will get completed
(D) Something that will never happen

Q403.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
One who does not believe in God
(A) Catholic
(B) Priest
(C) Reverent
(D) Atheist

Q404.
‘The town of Ramanathapuram was a thriving, factious town.’ Here ‘factious’
means:
(A) where people lived in harmony
(B) where people were divided
(C) where people were rich
(D) where people were dissatisfied

Q405.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Fertile watery place in a desert
(A) Obsolete
(B) Obscure
(C) Ode
(D) Oasis

Q406.
Select the option that rectifies the spelling error in the given sentence.
They broght their dog to the park for a walk.
(A) brought
(B) brahgt
(C) bruaght
(D) braoght

Q407.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Vivacious and enthusiastic
(A) Introverted
(B) Effervescent
(C) Rowdy
(D) Brazen

Q408.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Words inscribed on a tomb.
(A) Epitaph
(B) Prologue
(C) Epilogue
(D) Post-script

Q409.
The main theme of the passage is:
(A) increase in male enrolment in science and technology
(B) increase in male enrolment in postgraduate courses
(C) increase in total enrolment in higher education
(D) increase in women enrolment in higher education

Q410.
Select the option that correctly rectifies the spelling error in the given sentence.
The movie is just beggining.
(A) Biginning
(B) Beginning
(C) Beginnig
(D) Begining

Q411.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Consonance of sounds.
(A) Troupe
(B) Woodwinds
(C) Orchestration
(D) Symphony

Q412.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank.
She ________ her painting by this time next week.
(A) will have finished
(B) will finish
(C) finishes
(D) finished

Q413.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
The best of both worlds
(A) Everyone gets a chance
(B) Stay strong in a difficult situation
(C) Do a perfectly good job
(D) Good in every way

Q414.
Select the option that rectifies the spelling error in the given sentence.
The phone rang, but nobody awnsered.
(A) awmsered
(B) ansvered
(C) answorod
(D) answered

Q415.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A lover of mankind
(A) Recluse
(B) Cynic
(C) Psychiatrist
(D) Philanthropist

Q416.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
The study of Man
(A) Autobiography
(B) Anthropology
(C) Biography
(D) Biology

Q417.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Bite the bullet
(A) To avoid a situation
(B) To help someone achieve their goals
(C) To eat something unpleasant
(D) To face a difficult situation

Q418.
Identify the meaning of the idiom in the given situation.
I will always stand by my friend.
(A) Be in a queue
(B) Stand next to
(C) Support in difficult situation
(D) Work together

Q419.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the
given idiom.
A goose's eye view
(A) dog's
(B) hornet's
(C) fool's
(D) bird's

Q420.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined segment in the
given idiom.
A piece of biscuit
(A) pastry
(B) cake
(C) tart
(D) Toast

Q421.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Swim with sharks
(A) To be an excellent swimmer
(B) To spend money recklessly
(C) To operate among dangerous people
(D) To work with experts

Q422.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
A list of books
(A) Lexicon
(B) Manuscript
(C) Bibliography
(D) Catalogue

Q423.
Select the most appropriate option that can substitute the underlined word in the
given idiom.
At the last hour
(A) half
(B) eleventh
(C) sixth
(D) twelfth

Q424.
Select the option that can be used as a one word substitute for the given group
of words.
Science of life
(A) Phytology
(B) Phonology
(C) Philology
(D) Biology

Q425.
What is one of the pirate quirks mentioned in the passage?
(A) Their tendency to forget where they buried their treasure
(B) Their love for basketball
(C) Their fondness for cats
(D) Their love of gardening

Q426.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank and complete the given
idiom.
Cost an arm and a __________
(A) foot
(B) nose
(C) hand
(D) leg

Q427.
Select the option that can be used as a one-word substitute for the given group of
words.
Weak and cowardly
(A) Pusillanimous
(B) Meek
(C) Timid
(D) Anxious

Q428.
Select the sentence that has a grammatical error.
(A) I will be drive into town later on.
(B) I will be driving into town later on.
(C) I might drive into town later on.
(D) I could be driving into town later on.

Q429.
According to the teacher, Iyadurai Solomon, what was most important for
learning?
(A) To be a good student
(B) A good teacher
(C) To be comfortable in class
(D) To be open-minded

Q430.
A total of how many students enrolled in Science courses at the Post Graduate
level?
(A) 57.18 lakh students
(B) 7.52 lakh students
(C) 11.3 lakh students
(D) 45,324 students

Q431.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Alter
(A) Alight
(B) Change
(C) Preserve
(D) Absorb Sub Inspector in Delhi Police and Central Armed Police Forces Examination 2024 Paper I Exam

Q432.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Yeoman’s service
(A) Excellent work done
(B) A thankless and tedious job
(C) Working under a cruel master
(D) Fraudulent service

Q433.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Keep your pants on
(A) To wear the dress neatly
(B) To keep calm and quiet
(C) To make things proper
(D) To work like a tailor

Q434.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
Ramya is an ardent follower of secularism.
(A) committed
(B) forced
(C) temporary
(D) unhappy

Q435.
Select the most appropriate option to complete the given idiom.
__________ lies in the eyes of beholder.
(A) Love
(B) Beauty
(C) Happiness
(D) Nature

Q436.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Gift of the gab
(A) A gift for a person named Gab
(B) A talent for speaking
(C) A talent for lying
(D) A talent for singing

Q437.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
See eye to eye
(A) To agree with someone
(B) To ignore someone
(C) To get upset with something
(D) To do something pointless

Q438.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the highlighted word
The worker is known to exert himself a lot.
(A) crouch
(B) emerge
(C) relax
(D) stress

Q439.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Go down in flames
(A) To fail spectacularly
(B) To destroy completely
(C) To crash and burn
(D) To burn down completely

Q440.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank and complete the given
idiom.
Break the _________
(A) snow
(B) ice
(C) fog
(D) chill

Q441.
Identify the most suitable title for the passage.
(A) Success Story of Airline Companies
(B) Threats of Climate Changes
(C) Biofuels Vs Synthetic Fuels
(D) One Good Turn from the Aviation Industry

Q442.
Who first protested in Bengal against the corrupt practices of the East India
Company?
(A) Murshid Quli Khan
(B) Alivardi Khan
(C) Aurangzeb
(D) Sirajuddaulah

Q443.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
On thin ice
(A) In a risky position
(B) Communicating with friends
(C) On a summer vacation
(D) On an investigating job

Q444.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
I was astonished to know the truth.
(A) Stunned
(B) Awesome
(C) Blindsided
(D) Sickened

Q445.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Tall talk
(A) Presenting illogical arguments
(B) Exaggerating things
(C) Talking sorrowfully
(D) Exchanging heated words

Q446.
Select the most appropriate option to complete the given idiom.
Actions speak louder than _______.
(A) noises
(B) pictures
(C) words
(D) things

Q447.
Identify from the given options the word which is similar in meaning to the following
word.
Efface
(A) Hidden
(B) Makeup
(C) Daily
(D) Destroy

Q448.
As per the passage which facial factors are not recognized with face recognition?
(A) Jawline length
(B) Face shape
(C) Cheekbones structure
(D) Eye sockets

Q449.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Spill the beans
(A) Reveal a secret
(B) Accomplish a lot
(C) Cornered by someone
(D) Tremble at possibilities

Q450.
What quality do we get to know about JK Rowling that helps her become a successful
writer?
(A) Humility
(B) Perseverance
(C) Flexibility
(D) Focus

Q451.
What was Rowling doing when she started writing Harry Potter and the Sorcerer’s
Stone?
(A) Designing
(B) Writing full-time
(C) Teaching
(D) Accounting

Q452.
Select the most suitable word from the passage which means ‘difficult to stay or live
in’.
(A) Inhospitable
(B) Dense
(C) Barren
(D) Essential

Q453.
Which of the following is the main area where Dehraduni Basmati rice is
cultivated?
(A) Brahamanwalaa
(B) Seolakalan
(C) Seola Khurd
(D) Seola Majra

Q454.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given phrase.
Hit the sack
(A) Running on the beach
(B) Cracking the exams
(C) Going to sleep
(D) Making money quickly

Q455.
Identify the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Bread and butter
(A) Comfortable living
(B) Means of livelihood
(C) The breakfast
(D) Money making

Q456.
What was Magna Graecia?
(A) A Greek city in Italy.
(B) An ancient Roman settlement.
(C) The coastal areas of southern Italy inhabited by Greek speakers.
(D) A province where Lucanians—an Italic tribe lived.

Q457.
Which is the right set of ANTONYMS from the options for ‘Confidential’?
(A) Familiar, Revealed
(B) Offstage, Sneaking
(C) Public, Concealed
(D) Hushed, Common

Q458.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the underlined word.
I will strive to win the race.
(A) trouble
(B) Support
(C) Assume
(D) Attempt

Q459.
After reading the given passage it can be inferred that it is an extract from:
(A) a travelogue
(B) an article
(C) an autobiography
(D) a biography

Q460.
Identify the most suitable title for the given passage.
(A) Moon and Mars Expedition
(B) Necessity of Mining
(C) The Uninhabitable Universe
(D) Mysteries Under Man’s Feet

Q461.
Based on your reading of the passage, select the most appropriate antonym of
excessive:
(A) Accurate
(B) Lavish
(C) Extreme
(D) Moderate

Q462.
In 2022, how much area was under cultivation of Dehraduni Basmati rice?
(A) 420.3 hectares
(B) 410.1 hectares
(C) 157.8 hectares
(D) 180.7 hectares

Q463.
Which person in the author’s life guided him to control his thinking?
(A) Shamsuddin
(B) His teacher in the new school
(C) Jallaluddin
(D) His father

Q464.
Which of the following most accurately states the main idea of the passage?
(A) Plastic pollution
(B) Climate change
(C) Plastic waste
(D) UNEP

Q465.
Why do pirates wear eyepatches?
(A) To maintain night vision in both eyes
(B) To cover up an embarrassing birthmark
(C) Because they lost an eye in battle
(D) To intimidate their enemies

Q466.
Choose the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
At the drop of a hat
(A) Consecutively
(B) Eventually
(C) Certainly
(D) Immediately

Q467.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Bring to book
(A) Teach someone
(B) Punish someone
(C) Support someone
(D) Calm someone

Q468.
Mankind’s survival, according to the passage, solely depends on _________ .
(A) inventions
(B) celestial bodies
(C) soil
(D) reproduction

Q469.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Make waves
(A) To cause difficulty
(B) To give up
(C) To take it easy
(D) To have patience

Q470.
Select the most appropriate option to complete the given idiom.
Pull someone’s ________.
(A) leg
(B) ears
(C) hand
(D) nose

Q471.
Which of the following is the best description of the tone of the passage?
(A) Populist
(B) Laudatory
(C) Informative
(D) Patronising

Q472.
The passage is mainly about:
(A) the city of Paestum
(B) the recently discovered two ancient temples
(C) the major temples of Poseidonia
(D) the history of a Greek settlement

Q473.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
By leaps and bounds
(A) Unknowingly
(B) Normally
(C) Slowly
(D) Rapidly

Q474.
Human-caused earthquakes are related to _________ .
(A) artificial intelligence
(B) population explosion
(C) industrial activities
(D) space expedition

Q475.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Chip on the shoulder
(A) Happy
(B) Offended
(C) Emotional
(D) Elated

Q476.
After reading the passage it can be inferred that it is:
(A) a scientific article
(B) a news item
(C) a survey report
(D) an official statement

Q477.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Up the ante
(A) Increase demands
(B) Cost cutting
(C) Mediocre
(D) Expensive

Q478.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) wasting
(B) simmering
(C) replicating
(D) falling SICPO 2024 Paper II

Q479.
How many women were enrolled in higher education in the year 2017-18?
(A) 1.74 crore
(B) 2.7 crore
(C) 2.1 crore
(D) 4.33 crore

Q480.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Bread and butter
(A) Breakfast
(B) Sharing
(C) Livelihood
(D) Party

Q481.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Discernible
(A) Sensational
(B) Imperceptible
(C) Noticeable
(D) Apparent

Q482.
Identify the most suitable title for the passage.
(A) Seismic Depression
(B) How Safe Are We on this Earth?
(C) Industrial Threats
(D) Man Vs Man

Q483.
Select the most suitable word from the passage which means ‘empirical’.
(A) Ambitious
(B) Sustained
(C) Latest
(D) Enormous

Q484.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Black sheep
(A) Naive
(B) Miscreant
(C) Disreputable
(D) Intelligent

Q485.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Sacred cow
(A) Interrogate
(B) Unquestionable
(C) Harmful
(D) Hateful

Q486.
Select the most appropriate meaning of the given idiom.
Turn a blind eye
(A) Irritate
(B) Ignore
(C) Insult
(D) Abuse

Q487.
Which of the following options best describes the tone of the passage?
(A) Serious
(B) Sarcastic
(C) Angry
(D) Humorous

Q488.
Select the most suitable word from the passage which means ‘create’.
(A) Deplete
(B) Destabilise
(C) Seismic
(D) Increase

Q489.
Select the word from the passage that is the ANTONYM for ‘conformity’.
(A) Constantly
(B) Secure
(C) Amusing
(D) Quirky

Q490.
Select the most appropriate title for the given passage:
(A) Hacking and Safety
(B) AI interface
(C) Face Recognition
(D) Human Face

Q491.
Which of the following represents the structure of the passage?
(A) Definition
(B) Sequence
(C) Cause-effect
(D) Time order

Q492.
The meaning of which of the following options is ‘Good luck’?
(A) Second banana
(B) All wet
(C) Hang in there
(D) Break a leg

Q493.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Fabulous
(A) Remarkable
(B) Resourceful
(C) Regrettable
(D) Restful

Q494.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank Number 2.
(A) steady
(B) increase
(C) understand
(D) strengthen

Q495.
Which of the following is NOT a type/kind of new media?
(A) Web advertisements
(B) Television
(C) Emails
(D) Online video streams

Q496.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Aggravate
(A) Exasperate
(B) Alleviate
(C) Humiliate
(D) Ignorant

Q497.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Concordant
(A) Certain
(B) Unanimous
(C) Abnormal
(D) Harmonious

Q498.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank Number 4.
(A) strict
(B) forced
(C) unregulated
(D) intolerant

Q499.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Voracious
(A) Quenched
(B) Appreciate
(C) Compensated
(D) Greedy

Q500.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) exaggerates
(B) enunciates
(C) excavates
(D) experiences

Q501.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Habitual
(A) Considerate
(B) Continuous
(C) Diverse
(D) Pertinent

Q502.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Stringent
(A) Exacting
(B) Satiated
(C) Flexible
(D) Affordable

Q503.
Identify the most appropriate antonym of the given word.
Summary
(A) Abrupt
(B) lengthy
(C) elliptical
(D) significant

Q504.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) necessarily
(B) necessity
(C) necessitate
(D) essential

Q505.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank Number 5.
(A) portions
(B) factors
(C) influences
(D) agents

Q506.
Select an appropriate title for the passage.
(A) The Craft of Writing
(B) The Publishing Journey
(C) Rowling’s Life
(D) Rowling's mystery

Q507.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Convalesce
(A) Collapse
(B) Conceal
(C) Corrupt
(D) Confront

Q508.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) navigates
(B) customises
(C) procures
(D) coordinates

Q509.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Accolade
(A) Criticism
(B) Tribute
(C) Promotion
(D) Assurance

Q510.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Pitiable
(A) Eradicate
(B) Pleasant
(C) Grievous
(D) Aggregate

Q511.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank Number 10.
(A) surveillance
(B) fence
(C) hill
(D) border

Q512.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) unbelievable
(B) ungrateful
(C) unsafe
(D) undaunted

Q513.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Eagerly
(A) Stringently
(B) Dubiously
(C) Keenly
(D) Playfully

Q514.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Amiable
(A) Aesthetical
(B) Exemplary
(C) Hostile
(D) Cordial

Q515.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the word ‘Customise’.
(A) Personalise
(B) Realise
(C) Generalise
(D) Ritualised

Q516.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) enchanting
(B) surprising
(C) abnormal
(D) ordinary

Q517.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Prudent
(A) Precious
(B) Diffident
(C) Judicious
(D) Doubtful

Q518.
Identify the most appropriate antonym of the given word.
Freezing
(A) summery
(B) brisk
(C) gnawing
(D) tropical

Q519.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Cowardice
(A) Boldness
(B) Abundance
(C) Hazard
(D) Vigour

Q520.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) denies
(B) suggests
(C) offers
(D) garnersprovides

Q521.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) extraordinary
(B) pragmatic
(C) hereditary
(D) familiar

Q522.
Find out the correct antonym of the following word: realize
(A) Misunderstand
(B) Understand
(C) Comprehend
(D) Grasp

Q523.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) register
(B) captivate
(C) magnify
(D) manipulate

Q524.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) explaining
(B) was explain
(C) explain
(D) had explain

Q525.
What is a common phrase used in pirate language?
(A) Yo, dude!
(B) Shiver me timbers
(C) Howdy, partner!
(D) Greetings, friend!

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. According to the recently released All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE) for the year 2021-22, more women than men have enrolled in higher education in the last eight years. Women account for 55 per cent of the total increase in total enrolment in higher education (91 lakh) since 2014-15. According to the latest survey report, out of the total enrolment of 4.33 crore, 48 per cent or 2.07 crore are women. A small rise of 2.01 crore was observed in female enrolment from 1.88 crore in 2019-20. In 2014-15, out of a total 3.42 crore enrolments, the percentage of women was 46 per cent. There has been a continuous increase in the enrolment of women since the year 2014-15, the AISHE report stated. Enrolment of women increased by 18.7 per cent during ﬁve years, from 2.01 crore in 2020-21 and from 1.74 crore in 2017-18 to 2.07 crore in 2021-22. The report released said, “The share of female enrolment in the increase in total enrolment (91 lakh) since 2014-15 is 55 per cent. There has been more increase in the enrolment of women as compared to men.” Overall, this trend indicates a narrowing gender gap in higher education. Among the areas where women have made their mark is the science stream, in which 52.1 per cent of the total 57.18 lakh students enrolled at the undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil, and PhD levels are women. About 51 per cent of the total enrolled at the undergraduate level are women in the science stream. In the year 2020-21, as many as 55.48 lakh students took admission to Science, of which 53.1 per cent were women, showing a slight decline. At the PG level in Science, 61.2 per cent of the 7.52 lakh students enrolled are women. Of the 45,324 students enrolled in PhD programmes in the sciences, more than half (62 per cent) are women, while only 39 per cent are men. The latest AISHE survey showed that the annual growth in female PhD enrolment from 2014-15 to 2021-22 is 10.4 per cent. However, the diﬀerence between engineering and technology disciplines is clear. Of the total students enrolled in undergraduate programmes, only 11.3 lakh are females and 27.6 lakh are males. SubQuestion No : 27
Q526.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) bangles
(B) toe-rings
(C) anklets
(D) ear-rings

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. According to the recently released All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE) for the year 2021-22, more women than men have enrolled in higher education in the last eight years. Women account for 55 per cent of the total increase in total enrolment in higher education (91 lakh) since 2014-15. According to the latest survey report, out of the total enrolment of 4.33 crore, 48 per cent or 2.07 crore are women. A small rise of 2.01 crore was observed in female enrolment from 1.88 crore in 2019-20. In 2014-15, out of a total 3.42 crore enrolments, the percentage of women was 46 per cent. There has been a continuous increase in the enrolment of women since the year 2014-15, the AISHE report stated. Enrolment of women increased by 18.7 per cent during ﬁve years, from 2.01 crore in 2020-21 and from 1.74 crore in 2017-18 to 2.07 crore in 2021-22. The report released said, “The share of female enrolment in the increase in total enrolment (91 lakh) since 2014-15 is 55 per cent. There has been more increase in the enrolment of women as compared to men.” Overall, this trend indicates a narrowing gender gap in higher education. Among the areas where women have made their mark is the science stream, in which 52.1 per cent of the total 57.18 lakh students enrolled at the undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil, and PhD levels are women. About 51 per cent of the total enrolled at the undergraduate level are women in the science stream. In the year 2020-21, as many as 55.48 lakh students took admission to Science, of which 53.1 per cent were women, showing a slight decline. At the PG level in Science, 61.2 per cent of the 7.52 lakh students enrolled are women. Of the 45,324 students enrolled in PhD programmes in the sciences, more than half (62 per cent) are women, while only 39 per cent are men. The latest AISHE survey showed that the annual growth in female PhD enrolment from 2014-15 to 2021-22 is 10.4 per cent. However, the diﬀerence between engineering and technology disciplines is clear. Of the total students enrolled in undergraduate programmes, only 11.3 lakh are females and 27.6 lakh are males. SubQuestion No : 27
Q527.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) beloved
(B) overlooked
(C) scorned
(D) despised

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. According to the recently released All India Survey on Higher Education (AISHE) for the year 2021-22, more women than men have enrolled in higher education in the last eight years. Women account for 55 per cent of the total increase in total enrolment in higher education (91 lakh) since 2014-15. According to the latest survey report, out of the total enrolment of 4.33 crore, 48 per cent or 2.07 crore are women. A small rise of 2.01 crore was observed in female enrolment from 1.88 crore in 2019-20. In 2014-15, out of a total 3.42 crore enrolments, the percentage of women was 46 per cent. There has been a continuous increase in the enrolment of women since the year 2014-15, the AISHE report stated. Enrolment of women increased by 18.7 per cent during ﬁve years, from 2.01 crore in 2020-21 and from 1.74 crore in 2017-18 to 2.07 crore in 2021-22. The report released said, “The share of female enrolment in the increase in total enrolment (91 lakh) since 2014-15 is 55 per cent. There has been more increase in the enrolment of women as compared to men.” Overall, this trend indicates a narrowing gender gap in higher education. Among the areas where women have made their mark is the science stream, in which 52.1 per cent of the total 57.18 lakh students enrolled at the undergraduate, postgraduate, MPhil, and PhD levels are women. About 51 per cent of the total enrolled at the undergraduate level are women in the science stream. In the year 2020-21, as many as 55.48 lakh students took admission to Science, of which 53.1 per cent were women, showing a slight decline. At the PG level in Science, 61.2 per cent of the 7.52 lakh students enrolled are women. Of the 45,324 students enrolled in PhD programmes in the sciences, more than half (62 per cent) are women, while only 39 per cent are men. The latest AISHE survey showed that the annual growth in female PhD enrolment from 2014-15 to 2021-22 is 10.4 per cent. However, the diﬀerence between engineering and technology disciplines is clear. Of the total students enrolled in undergraduate programmes, only 11.3 lakh are females and 27.6 lakh are males. SubQuestion No : 27
Q528.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) managing
(B) manages
(C) management
(D) managed

Q529.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Unhappiness
(A) Woe
(B) Wilful
(C) Willing
(D) Wicked

Q530.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank Number 7.
(A) among
(B) about
(C) between
(D) beyond

Q531.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Condemn
(A) Uphold
(B) Elevate
(C) Tolerate
(D) Denounce

Q532.
What is the most appropriate ANTONYM of the word ‘fluctuate’?
(A) Stabilise
(B) Deflect
(C) Fickle
(D) Vacillate

Q533.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Confound
(A) Expire
(B) Discern
(C) Assure
(D) Suppress

Q534.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Indigent
(A) Bust
(B) Low
(C) Impoverished
(D) Affluent

Q535.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Quaint
(A) Brisk
(B) Ridiculous
(C) Ordinary
(D) Distinct

Q536.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Languid
(A) Exceptional
(B) Lazy
(C) Loyal
(D) Energetic

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. The East India Company began trade in Bengal. The ﬁrst English factory was set up on the banks of the river Hugli in 1651. This was the base from which the Company’s traders, known at that time as ‘factors’, operated. The factory had a warehouse where goods for export were stored, and it had oﬃces where Company oﬃcials sat. As trade expanded, the Company persuaded merchants and traders to come and settle near the factory. By 1696, it began building a fort around the settlement. Two years later, it bribed Mughal oﬃcials into giving the Company zamindari rights over three villages. One of these was Kalikata, which later grew into the city of Calcutta or Kolkata as it is known today. It also persuaded the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb to issue a farman granting the Company the right to trade duty free. The Company tried continuously to press for more concessions and manipulate existing privileges. Aurangzeb’s farman, for instance, had granted only the Company the right to trade duty free. But oﬃcials of the Company, who were carrying on private trade on the side, were expected to pay duty. This they refused to pay, causing an enormous loss of revenue for Bengal. How could the Nawab of Bengal, Murshid Quli Khan, not protest? Through the early eighteenth century, the conﬂict between the Company and the nawabs of Bengal intensiﬁed. After the death of Aurangzeb, the Bengal nawabs asserted their power and autonomy, as other regional powers were doing at that time. Murshid Quli Khan was followed by Alivardi Khan and then Sirajuddaulah as the Nawab of Bengal. Each one of them was a strong ruler. They refused to grant the Company concessions, demanded large tributes for the Company’s right to trade, denied it any right to mint coins, and stopped it from extending its fortiﬁcations. Accusing the Company of deceit, they claimed that the Company was depriving the Bengal government of huge amounts of revenue and undermining the authority of the nawab. It was refusing to pay taxes, writing disrespectful letters, and trying to humiliate the nawab and his oﬃcials.
Q537.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) withers
(B) avoids
(C) cultivates
(D) provokes

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. The East India Company began trade in Bengal. The ﬁrst English factory was set up on the banks of the river Hugli in 1651. This was the base from which the Company’s traders, known at that time as ‘factors’, operated. The factory had a warehouse where goods for export were stored, and it had oﬃces where Company oﬃcials sat. As trade expanded, the Company persuaded merchants and traders to come and settle near the factory. By 1696, it began building a fort around the settlement. Two years later, it bribed Mughal oﬃcials into giving the Company zamindari rights over three villages. One of these was Kalikata, which later grew into the city of Calcutta or Kolkata as it is known today. It also persuaded the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb to issue a farman granting the Company the right to trade duty free. The Company tried continuously to press for more concessions and manipulate existing privileges. Aurangzeb’s farman, for instance, had granted only the Company the right to trade duty free. But oﬃcials of the Company, who were carrying on private trade on the side, were expected to pay duty. This they refused to pay, causing an enormous loss of revenue for Bengal. How could the Nawab of Bengal, Murshid Quli Khan, not protest? Through the early eighteenth century, the conﬂict between the Company and the nawabs of Bengal intensiﬁed. After the death of Aurangzeb, the Bengal nawabs asserted their power and autonomy, as other regional powers were doing at that time. Murshid Quli Khan was followed by Alivardi Khan and then Sirajuddaulah as the Nawab of Bengal. Each one of them was a strong ruler. They refused to grant the Company concessions, demanded large tributes for the Company’s right to trade, denied it any right to mint coins, and stopped it from extending its fortiﬁcations. Accusing the Company of deceit, they claimed that the Company was depriving the Bengal government of huge amounts of revenue and undermining the authority of the nawab. It was refusing to pay taxes, writing disrespectful letters, and trying to humiliate the nawab and his oﬃcials.
Q538.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 6.
(A) located
(B) situated
(C) recognised
(D) established

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. The East India Company began trade in Bengal. The ﬁrst English factory was set up on the banks of the river Hugli in 1651. This was the base from which the Company’s traders, known at that time as ‘factors’, operated. The factory had a warehouse where goods for export were stored, and it had oﬃces where Company oﬃcials sat. As trade expanded, the Company persuaded merchants and traders to come and settle near the factory. By 1696, it began building a fort around the settlement. Two years later, it bribed Mughal oﬃcials into giving the Company zamindari rights over three villages. One of these was Kalikata, which later grew into the city of Calcutta or Kolkata as it is known today. It also persuaded the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb to issue a farman granting the Company the right to trade duty free. The Company tried continuously to press for more concessions and manipulate existing privileges. Aurangzeb’s farman, for instance, had granted only the Company the right to trade duty free. But oﬃcials of the Company, who were carrying on private trade on the side, were expected to pay duty. This they refused to pay, causing an enormous loss of revenue for Bengal. How could the Nawab of Bengal, Murshid Quli Khan, not protest? Through the early eighteenth century, the conﬂict between the Company and the nawabs of Bengal intensiﬁed. After the death of Aurangzeb, the Bengal nawabs asserted their power and autonomy, as other regional powers were doing at that time. Murshid Quli Khan was followed by Alivardi Khan and then Sirajuddaulah as the Nawab of Bengal. Each one of them was a strong ruler. They refused to grant the Company concessions, demanded large tributes for the Company’s right to trade, denied it any right to mint coins, and stopped it from extending its fortiﬁcations. Accusing the Company of deceit, they claimed that the Company was depriving the Bengal government of huge amounts of revenue and undermining the authority of the nawab. It was refusing to pay taxes, writing disrespectful letters, and trying to humiliate the nawab and his oﬃcials.
Q539.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank Number 1.
(A) along
(B) among
(C) above
(D) against

Q540.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Tight
(A) Cordial
(B) Slack
(C) Comfortable
(D) Resilient

Q541.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Entail
(A) Assume
(B) Necessitate
(C) Eliminate
(D) Flaw

Q542.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Suspend
(A) Extend
(B) Terminate
(C) Project
(D) Resume

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. Archaeologists have uncovered two ‘exceptional’ temples in a major ancient Greek city that changed hands several times over the centuries and whose history stretches back around 2,600 years. The remains of the temples were uncovered at the archaeological site of Paestum, which is located on the western coast of southern Italy in the province of Salerno in the region of Campania, the country's Ministry of Culture announced. Paestum was an important settlement in Magna Graecia, the name the Romans used to refer to the coastal areas of southern Italy that were inhabited by Greek speakers. These regions had been extensively populated by Greek settlers, starting from around the 8th century BC, Paestum is thought to have been founded around 600 BC by settlers from Sybaris—the most populous city of Magna Graecia. Paestum, which was originally called Poseidonia by the Greeks, thrived for around two centuries before being conquered by the Lucanians—an Italic tribe—in around 400 BC. The settlement subsequently came under Roman rule in 273 BC when it was renamed Paestum. The city eventually went into decline and was ﬁnally abandoned during the Middle Ages after being sacked by Muslim raiders in the 9th century. It was largely forgotten before the site was rediscovered in the 18th century. The archaeological site is renowned for its three remarkably well-preserved ancient Greek temples in the Doric order—an early classical architectural style. These major temples— dedicated to the deities Hera, Athena and Poseidon, respectively—were all built between roughly 550 BC and 450 BC. The newly uncovered temples, which were also constructed in the Doric style, were unearthed in the western area of the ancient settlement, close to the city walls and located just a few hundred feet from the sea. The latest discovery broadens our understanding of the ancient settlement, as well as the evolution of Doric architecture in Poseidonia and Magna Graecia in general, according to the ministry. SubQuestion No : 41
Q543.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank Number 9.
(A) location
(B) hill
(C) field
(D) area

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. Archaeologists have uncovered two ‘exceptional’ temples in a major ancient Greek city that changed hands several times over the centuries and whose history stretches back around 2,600 years. The remains of the temples were uncovered at the archaeological site of Paestum, which is located on the western coast of southern Italy in the province of Salerno in the region of Campania, the country's Ministry of Culture announced. Paestum was an important settlement in Magna Graecia, the name the Romans used to refer to the coastal areas of southern Italy that were inhabited by Greek speakers. These regions had been extensively populated by Greek settlers, starting from around the 8th century BC, Paestum is thought to have been founded around 600 BC by settlers from Sybaris—the most populous city of Magna Graecia. Paestum, which was originally called Poseidonia by the Greeks, thrived for around two centuries before being conquered by the Lucanians—an Italic tribe—in around 400 BC. The settlement subsequently came under Roman rule in 273 BC when it was renamed Paestum. The city eventually went into decline and was ﬁnally abandoned during the Middle Ages after being sacked by Muslim raiders in the 9th century. It was largely forgotten before the site was rediscovered in the 18th century. The archaeological site is renowned for its three remarkably well-preserved ancient Greek temples in the Doric order—an early classical architectural style. These major temples— dedicated to the deities Hera, Athena and Poseidon, respectively—were all built between roughly 550 BC and 450 BC. The newly uncovered temples, which were also constructed in the Doric style, were unearthed in the western area of the ancient settlement, close to the city walls and located just a few hundred feet from the sea. The latest discovery broadens our understanding of the ancient settlement, as well as the evolution of Doric architecture in Poseidonia and Magna Graecia in general, according to the ministry. SubQuestion No : 41
Q544.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) therefore
(B) subsequently
(C) instead
(D) such as

Q545.
Select the most appropriate synonym for the given word.
Immune
(A) Resistant
(B) Asleep
(C) Variable
(D) Safe

Q546.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Oral
(A) Verbal
(B) Inscribed
(C) Obligatory
(D) Dejected

Q547.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Grisly
(A) Pleasant
(B) Atrocious
(C) Glorious
(D) Dire

Q548.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) exalt
(B) exclaim
(C) exertion
(D) exercise

Q549.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Insipid
(A) Dismal
(B) Tasteless
(C) Obscure
(D) Idle

Q550.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 5.
(A) published
(B) bleached
(C) imprinted
(D) coloured

Q551.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Destitute
(A) Broken
(B) Corrupt
(C) Broke
(D) Firm

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. Shamsuddin and Ahmed Jallaluddin travelled with me to Ramanathapuram to enroll me in Schwartz High School and to arrange for my boarding there. Somehow, I did not take to the new setting. The town of Ramanathapuram was a thriving, factious town of some ﬁfty thousand people, but the coherence and harmony of Rameswaram was absent. I missed my home and grabbed every opportunity to visit Rameswaram. The pull of educational opportunities at Ramanathapuram was not strong enough to nullify the attraction of poli, a South Indian sweet my mother made. In fact, she used to prepare twelve distinctly diﬀerent varieties of it, bringing out the ﬂavour of every single ingredient used in the best possible combinations. Despite my homesickness, I was determined to come to terms with the new environment because I knew my father had invested great hopes in my success. My father visualised me as a Collector in the making and I thought it my duty to realise my father’s dream, although I desperately missed the familiarity, security and comforts of Rameswaram. Jallaluddin used to speak to me about the power of positive thinking and I often recalled his words when I felt homesick or dejected. I tried hard to do as he said, which was to strive to control my thoughts and my mind and, through these, to inﬂuence my destiny. Ironically, that destiny did not lead me back to Rameswaram, but rather, swept me farther away from the home of my childhood. Once I settled down at the Schwartz High School, Ramanathapuram, the enthusiastic ﬁfteen-year-old within me re-emerged. My teacher, Iyadurai Solomon, was an ideal guide for an eager young mind that was yet uncertain of the possibilities and alternatives that lay before it. He made his students feel very comfortable in class with his warm and open- minded attitude. He used to say that a good student could learn more from a bad teacher than a poor student from even a skilled teacher. SubQuestion No : 46
Q552.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) explain
(B) exploit
(C) explore
(D) exclaim

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. Shamsuddin and Ahmed Jallaluddin travelled with me to Ramanathapuram to enroll me in Schwartz High School and to arrange for my boarding there. Somehow, I did not take to the new setting. The town of Ramanathapuram was a thriving, factious town of some ﬁfty thousand people, but the coherence and harmony of Rameswaram was absent. I missed my home and grabbed every opportunity to visit Rameswaram. The pull of educational opportunities at Ramanathapuram was not strong enough to nullify the attraction of poli, a South Indian sweet my mother made. In fact, she used to prepare twelve distinctly diﬀerent varieties of it, bringing out the ﬂavour of every single ingredient used in the best possible combinations. Despite my homesickness, I was determined to come to terms with the new environment because I knew my father had invested great hopes in my success. My father visualised me as a Collector in the making and I thought it my duty to realise my father’s dream, although I desperately missed the familiarity, security and comforts of Rameswaram. Jallaluddin used to speak to me about the power of positive thinking and I often recalled his words when I felt homesick or dejected. I tried hard to do as he said, which was to strive to control my thoughts and my mind and, through these, to inﬂuence my destiny. Ironically, that destiny did not lead me back to Rameswaram, but rather, swept me farther away from the home of my childhood. Once I settled down at the Schwartz High School, Ramanathapuram, the enthusiastic ﬁfteen-year-old within me re-emerged. My teacher, Iyadurai Solomon, was an ideal guide for an eager young mind that was yet uncertain of the possibilities and alternatives that lay before it. He made his students feel very comfortable in class with his warm and open- minded attitude. He used to say that a good student could learn more from a bad teacher than a poor student from even a skilled teacher. SubQuestion No : 46
Q553.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) neglected
(B) vacated
(C) abandoned
(D) executed

PASSAGE: Read the given passage and answer the questions that follow. Shamsuddin and Ahmed Jallaluddin travelled with me to Ramanathapuram to enroll me in Schwartz High School and to arrange for my boarding there. Somehow, I did not take to the new setting. The town of Ramanathapuram was a thriving, factious town of some ﬁfty thousand people, but the coherence and harmony of Rameswaram was absent. I missed my home and grabbed every opportunity to visit Rameswaram. The pull of educational opportunities at Ramanathapuram was not strong enough to nullify the attraction of poli, a South Indian sweet my mother made. In fact, she used to prepare twelve distinctly diﬀerent varieties of it, bringing out the ﬂavour of every single ingredient used in the best possible combinations. Despite my homesickness, I was determined to come to terms with the new environment because I knew my father had invested great hopes in my success. My father visualised me as a Collector in the making and I thought it my duty to realise my father’s dream, although I desperately missed the familiarity, security and comforts of Rameswaram. Jallaluddin used to speak to me about the power of positive thinking and I often recalled his words when I felt homesick or dejected. I tried hard to do as he said, which was to strive to control my thoughts and my mind and, through these, to inﬂuence my destiny. Ironically, that destiny did not lead me back to Rameswaram, but rather, swept me farther away from the home of my childhood. Once I settled down at the Schwartz High School, Ramanathapuram, the enthusiastic ﬁfteen-year-old within me re-emerged. My teacher, Iyadurai Solomon, was an ideal guide for an eager young mind that was yet uncertain of the possibilities and alternatives that lay before it. He made his students feel very comfortable in class with his warm and open- minded attitude. He used to say that a good student could learn more from a bad teacher than a poor student from even a skilled teacher. SubQuestion No : 46
Q554.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 4.
(A) themselves
(B) ourselves
(C) herself
(D) himself

Q555.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Mighty
(A) Weak
(B) Forcible
(C) Forceful
(D) Haughty

Q556.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Pacify
(A) Rebuke
(B) Blame
(C) Strengthen
(D) Soothe

Q557.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) planking
(B) plank
(C) platform
(D) planks

Q558.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) became
(B) becomes
(C) become
(D) becoming

Q559.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) lifted
(B) grabbed
(C) twisted
(D) caught

Q560.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank Number 8.
(A) nor
(B) either
(C) neither
(D) or

Q561.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Upright
(A) Stout
(B) Immoral
(C) Brave
(D) Ethical

Q562.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 1.
(A) carefree
(B) careful
(C) stressful
(D) cautious

Q563.
How many years are required to renew the loss of 10 cm of soil?
(A) 1,00,000
(B) 1,000
(C) 100
(D) 10,000

PASSAGE: Read the passage given below and answer the questions that follow: There are no ancient nations anywhere in the world. All nations are modern. Ancient Greece, ancient Egypt, ancient India – all of them may have had great civilizations whose architecture, art, and literature are objects of admiration. But they are not nations. To realize this truth, you will have to forget for the time being the history you were taught at school. Because it is that history, drilled into your heads from the time you were children, and constantly renewed by national festivals and ceremonies, the speeches of your leaders, and novels, films, and television serials, that make it seem obvious to you that your nation is ancient. In actual fact, it is not true. Your nation is not – indeed no nation on earth is – ancient. Only modern people can imagine that way. SubQuestion No : 46
Q564.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 4.
(A) went
(B) reached
(C) reach
(D) stretched

PASSAGE: Read the passage given below and answer the questions that follow: There are no ancient nations anywhere in the world. All nations are modern. Ancient Greece, ancient Egypt, ancient India – all of them may have had great civilizations whose architecture, art, and literature are objects of admiration. But they are not nations. To realize this truth, you will have to forget for the time being the history you were taught at school. Because it is that history, drilled into your heads from the time you were children, and constantly renewed by national festivals and ceremonies, the speeches of your leaders, and novels, films, and television serials, that make it seem obvious to you that your nation is ancient. In actual fact, it is not true. Your nation is not – indeed no nation on earth is – ancient. Only modern people can imagine that way. SubQuestion No : 46
Q565.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 7.
(A) joined
(B) recruited
(C) entered
(D) installed

PASSAGE: Read the passage given below and answer the questions that follow: There are no ancient nations anywhere in the world. All nations are modern. Ancient Greece, ancient Egypt, ancient India – all of them may have had great civilizations whose architecture, art, and literature are objects of admiration. But they are not nations. To realize this truth, you will have to forget for the time being the history you were taught at school. Because it is that history, drilled into your heads from the time you were children, and constantly renewed by national festivals and ceremonies, the speeches of your leaders, and novels, films, and television serials, that make it seem obvious to you that your nation is ancient. In actual fact, it is not true. Your nation is not – indeed no nation on earth is – ancient. Only modern people can imagine that way. SubQuestion No : 46
Q566.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank Number 6.
(A) which
(B) who
(C) whose
(D) what

Q567.
Find out the correct synonym of the following word: Obvious
(A) dubious
(B) clear
(C) ambiguous
(D) doubtful

Q568.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 2.
(A) cherished
(B) blocked
(C) dumped
(D) neglected

Q569.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Bind
(A) Secure
(B) Amuse
(C) Flourish
(D) Disengage

Q570.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) resting
(B) relax
(C) slumber
(D) sleep

Q571.
Which of the following is the name of a province in Italy?
(A) Paestum
(B) Sybaris
(C) Campania
(D) Salerno

Q572.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Reckon
(A) Merit
(B) Assess
(C) Count
(D) Imagine

Q573.
Select the most appropriate ANTONYM of the given word.
Exist
(A) Prevail
(B) Cease
(C) Imprint
(D) Resent

Q574.
Identify the most appropriate antonym of the given word.
Rapid
(A) active
(B) smart
(C) lately
(D) slow

Q575.
What is the primary component of face recognition?
(A) Surveillance
(B) Verification
(C) Identification
(D) Locking

Q576.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) affect
(B) result
(C) blow
(D) impact

Q577.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Dainty
(A) Vulgar
(B) Fine
(C) Elegant
(D) Sable

Q578.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) adopt
(B) adeptly
(C) adapt
(D) adept

Q579.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Mourn
(A) Dread
(B) Amuse
(C) Grieve
(D) Approve

Q580.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) battle
(B) conflict
(C) fight
(D) rivalry

Q581.
Select the most appropriate synonym of the given word.
Filthy
(A) Tidy
(B) Visual
(C) Shiny
(D) Dirty

Q582.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 3.
(A) mature
(B) innocent
(C) crafty
(D) guilty

Q583.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank No. 4.
(A) damage
(B) create
(C) design
(D) rectify

Q584.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 3.
(A) toe
(B) wrist
(C) waist
(D) ankle

Q585.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 1.
(A) will be
(B) is
(C) were
(D) was

Q586.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 3.
(A) herds
(B) gangs
(C) prides
(D) flocks

Q587.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in the blank Number 3.
(A) by
(B) in
(C) at
(D) on

Q588.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 5.
(A) lid
(B) spoon
(C) pan
(D) fork

Q589.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 8.
(A) lives
(B) living
(C) lived
(D) alive

Q590.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 1.
(A) taking
(B) takes
(C) take
(D) took

Q591.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 10.
(A) theirs
(B) it’s
(C) its
(D) them

Q592.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank number 2.
(A) by
(B) with
(C) upon
(D) in

Q593.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 9.
(A) deep
(B) total
(C) many
(D) very

Q594.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 5.
(A) for
(B) on
(C) under
(D) above

Q595.
Select the most appropriate option to fill in blank no. 2.
(A) by
(B) from
(C) with
(D) for

Q596.
Biofuels are not made from _________ .
(A) agricultural residue
(B) cooking oil
(C) coal
(D) trees

Q597.
Select the correct option to fill blank 5.
(A) among them
(B) within
(C) along
(D) with them

Q598.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Rhinoceros
(B) Bueraucracy
(C) Acquaintance
(D) Miscellaneous

Q599.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Assimilation
(B) Pluckiness
(C) Accumulation
(D) Exestenalism

Q600.
Select the correct option to fill blank 1.
(A) explanation
(B) basis
(C) reason
(D) reality

Q601.
Select the correct option to fill blank 2.
(A) matches
(B) gaming
(C) competition
(D) sport

Q602.
Select the correct option to fill blank 2.
(A) jumping
(B) shouting
(C) barking
(D) dancing

Q603.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Interogative
(B) Auditions
(C) Interference
(D) Greengrocers

Q604.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Neccessity
(B) Perseverance
(C) Hierarchy
(D) Knowledgeable

Q605.
Select the correct option to fill blank 3.
(A) good
(B) sound
(C) likeable
(D) acceptable

Q606.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Metamorphsis
(B) Mezzanine
(C) Meteorology
(D) Meticulous

Q607.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Matriculation
(B) Prohibition
(C) Humorous
(D) Addmission

Q608.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) ettiquete
(B) rationalisation
(C) elopement
(D) occasion

Q609.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Disseminate
(B) Enterpreneur
(C) Dilemma
(D) Accommodate

Q610.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Cheerfull
(B) Tsunami
(C) Efficient
(D) Responsibilities

Q611.
Select the correct option to fill blank 1.
(A) looked
(B) observed
(C) saw
(D) watched

Q612.
Select the correctly spelt word.
(A) refridgerator
(B) litrature
(C) registration
(D) allegater

Q613.
Select the correct option to fill blank 5.
(A) thought
(B) heard
(C) listened
(D) saw

Q614.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Illestrious
(B) Illusion
(C) Illiterate
(D) Illegible

Q615.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Passage
(B) Reconsidered
(C) Prevention
(D) Supremecy

Q616.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Entrepreneur
(B) Supersede
(C) Dissapear
(D) Vicinity

Q617.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) granary
(B) dictionary
(C) directory
(D) chancellary

Q618.
Select the correct option to fill blank 4.
(A) Nearly
(B) After
(C) Then
(D) Before

Q619.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Programe
(B) Unexpected
(C) Pilgrimage
(D) Campaign

Q620.
Select the incorrect form of the verb.
(A) struck
(B) strike
(C) stricken
(D) strucken

Q621.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Dictionary
(B) Reference
(C) Infurmary
(D) Ordinary

Q622.
Select the correct option to fill blank 1.
(A) middle
(B) side
(C) between
(D) end

Q623.
Select the correct option to fill blank 4.
(A) hands
(B) points
(C) dial
(D) light

Q624.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) obscurity
(B) schedule
(C) assasination
(D) buoyant

Q625.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word…
(A) Irritate
(B) Necessitate
(C) Reciept
(D) Hindrance

Q626.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Ambigous
(B) Luminous
(C) Gregarious
(D) Nostalgia

Q627.
Select the correct option to fill blank 3.
(A) some
(B) new
(C) rather
(D) other

Q628.
Select the correct option to fill blank 4.
(A) less
(B) little
(C) much
(D) more

Q629.
Select the correctly spelt word.
(A) directory
(B) dictionery
(C) dispensery
(D) machinary

Q630.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Notation
(B) Witharing
(C) Gallantry
(D) Vagabond

Q631.
What is the tone of the speaker?
(A) Dogmatic
(B) Apologetic
(C) Contemptuous
(D) Cynical

Q632.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Equally
(B) Unwilling
(C) Argument
(D) Occured

Q633.
Select the correct option to fill blank 2.
(A) when
(B) as
(C) why
(D) while

Q634.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Mariner
(B) Martyre
(C) Martial
(D) Marriage

Q635.
What is the tone of the speaker?
(A) Derisive
(B) Dogmatic
(C) Sarcastic
(D) Alarming

Q636.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Mountan
(B) Weekend
(C) Dessert
(D) Journey

Q637.
Select the INCORRECTLY spelt word.
(A) Bycycle
(B) Academy
(C) Mystery
(D) Justice

Q638.
What is the tone of the passage?
(A) Anxious
(B) Gloomy
(C) Informative
(D) Mystical

Q639.
Select the correct option to fill blank 5.
(A) on
(B) in
(C) with
(D) by

Q640.
Select the correct option to fill blank 3.
(A) in
(B) on
(C) at
(D) upon

Q641.
What is the tone of the speaker?
(A) Depressing
(B) Casual
(C) Worried
(D) Hopeful

Q642.
The given passage is _____.
(A) literary
(B) informative
(C) narrative
(D) descriptive
